# Quantum computing - Wikipedia
# Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Computer hardware technology that uses quantum mechanics
quantum computer
is a (real or theoretical)
that exploits
. Quantum computers can be viewed as sampling from quantum systems that evolve in ways that may be described as operating on an enormous number of possibilities simultaneously, though still subject to strict computational constraints. By contrast, ordinary ("classical") computers operate according to
deterministic
classical computer
can, in principle, be replicated by a
classical mechanical device
, with only a simple multiple of time cost. On the other hand (it is believed), a quantum computer would require
exponentially
more time and energy to be simulated classically.) It is widely believed that a quantum computer could perform
calculations exponentially faster than any classical computer. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could
break some widely used public-key cryptographic schemes
and aid physicists in performing
physical simulations
. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and only suitable for specialized tasks.
unit of information
in quantum computing, the
(or "quantum bit"), serves the same function as the
in ordinary or "classical" computing.
However, unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states (a
), a qubit can exist in a
linear combination
of two states known as a
quantum superposition
. The result of
a qubit is one of the two states given by a
probabilistic rule
. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way,
wave interference
effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. The design of
quantum algorithms
involves creating procedures that allow a quantum computer to perform this amplification.
Quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world applications. Physically engineering high-quality qubits has proven to be challenging. If a physical qubit is not sufficiently
from its environment, it suffers from
quantum decoherence
, introducing
into calculations. National governments have invested heavily in experimental research aimed at developing scalable qubits with longer coherence times and lower error rates. Example implementations include
superconductors
(which isolate an
electrical current
by eliminating
electrical resistance
(which confine a single
atomic particle
electromagnetic fields
). Researchers have claimed, and are widely believed to be correct, that certain quantum devices can outperform classical computers on narrowly defined tasks, a milestone referred to as quantum advantage or
quantum supremacy
. These tasks are not necessarily useful for real-world applications.
For a chronological guide, see
Timeline of quantum computing and communication
For many years, the fields of
quantum mechanics
computer science
formed distinct academic communities.
Modern quantum theory
was developed in the 1920s to explain perplexing physical phenomena observed at atomic scales,
digital computers
emerged in the following decades to replace
human computers
for tedious calculations.
Both disciplines had practical applications during
World War II
; computers played a major role in
wartime cryptography
and quantum physics was essential for
nuclear physics
used in the
Manhattan Project
applied quantum mechanical models to computational problems and swapped digital
, the fields of quantum mechanics and computer science began to converge. In 1980,
Paul Benioff
introduced the
quantum Turing machine
, which uses quantum theory to describe a simplified computer.
When digital computers became faster, physicists faced an
exponential
increase in overhead when
simulating quantum dynamics
Richard Feynman
to independently suggest that hardware based on quantum phenomena might be more efficient for computer simulation.
In a 1984 paper,
Charles Bennett
Gilles Brassard
applied quantum theory to
cryptography
protocols and demonstrated that quantum key distribution could enhance
information security
Quantum algorithms
then emerged for solving
oracle problems
Deutsch's algorithm
Bernstein–Vazirani algorithm
Simon's algorithm
These algorithms did not solve practical problems, but demonstrated mathematically that one could obtain more information by querying a
with a quantum state in
superposition
, sometimes referred to as
quantum parallelism
built on these results with
his 1994 algorithm
for breaking the widely used
Diffie–Hellman
encryption protocols,
which drew significant attention to the field of quantum computing. In 1996,
Grover's algorithm
established a quantum speedup for the widely applicable
unstructured
search problem.
The same year,
proved that quantum computers could simulate quantum systems without the exponential overhead present in classical simulations,
validating Feynman's 1982 conjecture.
Over the years,
experimentalists
have constructed small-scale quantum computers using
trapped ions
and superconductors.
In 1998, a two-qubit quantum computer demonstrated the feasibility of the technology,
and subsequent experiments have increased the number of qubits and reduced error rates.
announced that they had achieved
quantum supremacy
with a 54-qubit machine, performing a computation that any classical computer would find impossible.
This announcement was met with a rebuttal from
, which contended that the calculation Google claimed would take 10,000 years could be performed in just 2.5 days on its
Summit supercomputer
if its architecture were optimized, sparking a debate over the precise threshold for "quantum supremacy".
Quantum information processing
Computer engineers
typically describe a
modern computer
's operation in terms of
classical electrodynamics
. In these "classical" computers, some components (such as
semiconductors
random number generators
) may rely on quantum behavior; however, because they are not
from their environment, any
quantum information
eventually quickly
programmers
may depend on
probability theory
when designing a
randomized algorithm
, quantum-mechanical notions such as
superposition
wave interference
are largely irrelevant in
program analysis
Quantum programs
, in contrast, rely on precise control of
quantum systems. Physicists
describe these systems mathematically
linear algebra
Complex numbers
probability amplitudes
quantum states
model the operations that can be performed on these states. Programming a quantum computer is then a matter of
operations in such a way that the resulting program computes a useful result in theory and is implementable in practice.
As physicist
Charlie Bennett
describes the relationship between quantum and classical computers,
A classical computer is a quantum computer ... so we shouldn't be asking about "where do quantum speedups come from?" We should say, "Well, all computers are quantum. ... Where do classical slowdowns come from?"
Quantum information
Just as the bit is the basic concept of classical information theory, the
is the fundamental unit of
quantum information
. The same term
is used to refer to an abstract mathematical model and to any physical system that is represented by that model. A classical bit, by definition, exists in either of two physical states, which can be denoted 0 and 1. A qubit is also described by a state, and two states, often written
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
, serve as the quantum counterparts of the classical states 0 and 1. However, the quantum states
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
belong to a
vector space
, meaning that they can be multiplied by constants and added together, and the result is again a valid quantum state. Such a combination is known as a
superposition
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
A two-dimensional
mathematically represents a qubit state. Physicists typically use
bra–ket notation
for quantum mechanical
linear algebra
{\displaystyle |\psi \rangle }
for a vector labeled
{\displaystyle \psi }
. Because a qubit is a two-state system, any qubit state takes the form
{\displaystyle \alpha |0\rangle +\beta |1\rangle }
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
are the standard
basis states
{\displaystyle \alpha }
{\displaystyle \beta }
probability amplitudes
which are in general
complex numbers
{\displaystyle \alpha }
{\displaystyle \beta }
is zero, the qubit is effectively a classical bit; when both are nonzero, the qubit is in superposition. Such a
quantum state vector
behaves similarly to a (classical)
probability vector
, with one key difference: unlike probabilities, probability
are not necessarily positive numbers.
Negative amplitudes allow for destructive wave interference.
When a qubit is
standard basis
, the result is a classical bit. The
describes the
norm-squared
correspondence between amplitudes and probabilities—when measuring a qubit
{\displaystyle \alpha |0\rangle +\beta |1\rangle }
, the state
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
with probability
{\displaystyle |\alpha |^{2}}
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
with probability
{\displaystyle |\beta |^{2}}
Any valid qubit state has coefficients
{\displaystyle \alpha }
{\displaystyle \beta }
{\displaystyle |\alpha |^{2}+|\beta |^{2}=1}
As an example, measuring the qubit
{\displaystyle 1/{\sqrt {2}}|0\rangle +1/{\sqrt {2}}|1\rangle }
would produce either
{\displaystyle |0\rangle }
{\displaystyle |1\rangle }
with equal probability.
Each additional qubit doubles the
state space
As an example, the vector
represents a two-qubit state, a
tensor product
of the qubit
with the qubit
This vector inhabits a four-dimensional
vector space
spanned by the basis vectors
is impossible to decompose into the tensor product of two individual qubits—the two qubits are
because neither qubit has a state vector of its own.
In general, the vector space for an
-qubit system is
-dimensional, and this makes it challenging for a classical computer to simulate a quantum one: representing a 100-qubit system requires storing 2
classical values.
Unitary operators
Unitarity (physics)
The state of this one-qubit
quantum memory
can be manipulated by applying
quantum logic gates
, analogous to how classical memory can be manipulated with
classical logic gates
. One important gate for both classical and quantum computation is the NOT gate, which can be represented by a
{\displaystyle X:={\begin{pmatrix}0&1\\1&0\end{pmatrix}}.}
Mathematically, the application of such a logic gate to a quantum state vector is modeled with
matrix multiplication
{\displaystyle X|0\rangle =|1\rangle }
{\displaystyle X|1\rangle =|0\rangle }
The mathematics of single-qubit gates can be extended to operate on multi-qubit quantum memories in two important ways. One way is simply to select a qubit and apply that gate to the target qubit while leaving the remainder of the memory unaffected. Another way is to apply the gate to its target only if another part of the memory is in a desired state. These two choices can be illustrated using another example. The possible states of a two-qubit quantum memory are
{\displaystyle |00\rangle :={\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\\0\\0\end{pmatrix}};\quad |01\rangle :={\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\\0\\0\end{pmatrix}};\quad |10\rangle :={\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\\1\\0\end{pmatrix}};\quad |11\rangle :={\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\\0\\1\end{pmatrix}}.}
controlled NOT (CNOT)
gate can then be represented using the following matrix:
{\displaystyle \operatorname {CNOT} :={\begin{pmatrix}1&0&0&0\\0&1&0&0\\0&0&0&1\\0&0&1&0\end{pmatrix}}.}
As a mathematical consequence of this definition,
{\textstyle \operatorname {CNOT} |00\rangle =|00\rangle }
{\textstyle \operatorname {CNOT} |01\rangle =|01\rangle }
{\textstyle \operatorname {CNOT} |10\rangle =|11\rangle }
{\textstyle \operatorname {CNOT} |11\rangle =|10\rangle }
. In other words, the CNOT applies a NOT gate (
{\textstyle X}
from before) to the second qubit if and only if the first qubit is in the state
{\textstyle |1\rangle }
. If the first qubit is
{\textstyle |0\rangle }
, nothing is done to either qubit.
In summary, quantum computation can be described as a network of quantum logic gates and measurements. However, any
measurement can be deferred
to the end of quantum computation, though this deferment may come at a computational cost, so most
quantum circuits
depict a network consisting only of quantum logic gates and no measurements.
Quantum parallelism
Quantum parallelism
is the heuristic that quantum computers can be thought of as evaluating a function for multiple input values simultaneously. This can be achieved by preparing a quantum system in a superposition of input states and applying a unitary transformation that encodes the function to be evaluated. The resulting state encodes the function's output values for all input values in the superposition, enabling the simultaneous computation of multiple outputs. This property is key to the speedup of many quantum algorithms. However, "parallelism" in this sense is insufficient to speed up a computation, because the measurement at the end of the computation gives only one value. To be useful, a quantum algorithm must also incorporate some other conceptual ingredient.
Quantum programming
Further information:
Quantum programming
There are multiple
models of computation
for quantum computing, distinguished by the basic elements in which the computation is decomposed.
quantum gate array
decomposes computation into a sequence of few-qubit
quantum gates
. A quantum computation can be described as a network of quantum logic gates and measurements. However, any measurement can be deferred to the end of quantum computation, though this deferment may come at a computational cost, so most quantum circuits depict a network consisting only of quantum logic gates and no measurements.
Any quantum computation (which is, in the above formalism, any
unitary matrix
{\displaystyle 2^{n}\times 2^{n}}
{\displaystyle n}
qubits) can be represented as a network of quantum logic gates from a fairly small family of gates. A choice of gate family that enables this construction is known as a
universal gate set
, since a computer that can run such circuits is a
universal quantum computer
. One common such set includes all single-qubit gates as well as the CNOT gate from above. This means any quantum computation can be performed by executing a sequence of single-qubit gates together with CNOT gates. Though this gate set is infinite, it can be replaced with a finite gate set by appealing to the
Solovay-Kitaev theorem
. Implementation of Boolean functions using the few-qubit quantum gates is presented here.
Measurement-based quantum computing
measurement-based quantum computer
decomposes computation into a sequence of
Bell state measurements
and single-qubit
quantum gates
applied to a highly entangled initial state (a
cluster state
), using a technique called
quantum gate teleportation
Adiabatic quantum computing
adiabatic quantum computer
quantum annealing
, decomposes computation into a slow continuous transformation of an initial
Hamiltonian
into a final Hamiltonian, whose ground states contain the solution.
Neuromorphic quantum computing
Neuromorphic quantum computing (abbreviated 'n.quantum computing') is an unconventional process of computing that uses
neuromorphic computing
to perform quantum operations. It was suggested that quantum algorithms, which are algorithms that run on a realistic model of quantum computation, can be computed equally efficiently with neuromorphic quantum computing. Both traditional quantum computing and neuromorphic quantum computing are physics-based unconventional computing approaches to computations and do not follow the
von Neumann architecture
. They both construct a system (a circuit) that represents the physical problem at hand and then leverage their respective physics properties of the system to seek the "minimum". Neuromorphic quantum computing and quantum computing share similar physical properties during computation.
Topological quantum computing
topological quantum computer
decomposes computation into the braiding of
in a 2D lattice.
Quantum Turing machine
quantum Turing machine
is the quantum analog of a
Turing machine
All of these models of computation—quantum circuits,
one-way quantum computation
adiabatic quantum computation,
and topological quantum computation
—have been shown to be equivalent to the quantum Turing machine; given a perfect implementation of one such quantum computer, it can simulate all the others with no more than polynomial overhead. This equivalence need not hold for practical quantum computers, since the overhead of simulation may be too large to be practical.
Noisy intermediate-scale quantum computing
threshold theorem
shows how increasing the number of qubits can mitigate errors,
yet fully fault-tolerant quantum computing remains "a rather distant dream".
According to some researchers,
noisy intermediate-scale quantum
) machines may have specialized uses in the near future, but
in quantum gates limits their reliability.
Scientists at
University successfully created "quantum circuits" that correct errors more efficiently than alternative methods, which may potentially remove a major obstacle to practical quantum computers.
The Harvard research team was supported by
QuEra Computing
University and funded by
's Optimization with Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum devices (ONISQ) program.
Quantum cryptography and cybersecurity
Main article:
Quantum cryptography
Digital cryptography enables communications to remain private, preventing unauthorized parties from accessing them. Conventional encryption, the obscuring of a message with a key through an algorithm, relies on the algorithm being difficult to reverse. Encryption is also the basis for digital signatures and authentication mechanisms. Quantum computing may be sufficiently more powerful that difficult reversals are feasible, allowing messages relying on conventional encryption to be read.
Quantum cryptography replaces conventional algorithms with computations based on quantum computing. In principle, quantum encryption would be impossible to decode even with a quantum computer. This advantage comes at a significant cost in terms of elaborate infrastructure, while effectively preventing legitimate decoding of messages by governmental security officials.
Ongoing research in quantum and
post-quantum cryptography
has led to new algorithms for
quantum key distribution
, initial work on quantum
random number generation
and to some early technology demonstrations.
: 1012–1036
Communication
Further information:
Quantum information science
Quantum cryptography
enables new ways to transmit data securely; for example,
quantum key distribution
uses entangled quantum states to establish secure
cryptographic keys
When a sender and receiver exchange quantum states, they can guarantee that an
does not intercept the message, as any unauthorized eavesdropper would disturb the delicate quantum system and introduce a detectable change.
With appropriate
cryptographic protocols
, the sender and receiver can thus establish shared private information resistant to eavesdropping.
fiber-optic cables
can transmit quantum information over relatively short distances. Ongoing experimental research aims to develop more reliable hardware (such as quantum repeaters), hoping to scale this technology to long-distance
quantum networks
with end-to-end entanglement. Theoretically, this could enable novel technological applications, such as distributed quantum computing and enhanced
quantum sensing
Progress in finding
quantum algorithms
typically focuses on the quantum circuit model,
though exceptions like the
quantum adiabatic algorithm
exist. Quantum algorithms can be roughly categorized by the type of speedup achieved over corresponding classical algorithms.
Quantum algorithms that offer more than a polynomial speedup over the best-known classical algorithm include
Shor's algorithm
for factoring and the related quantum algorithms for computing
discrete logarithms
Pell's equation
, and, more generally, solving the
hidden subgroup problem
finite groups.
These algorithms depend on the primitive of the
quantum Fourier transform
. No mathematical proof has been found that shows that an equally fast classical algorithm cannot be discovered, but evidence suggests that this is unlikely.
Certain oracle problems like
Simon's problem
Bernstein–Vazirani problem
do give provable speedups, though this is in the
quantum query model
, which is a restricted model where lower bounds are much easier to prove and don't necessarily translate to speedups for practical problems.
Other problems, including the simulation of quantum physical processes from chemistry and solid-state physics, the approximation of certain
Jones polynomials
quantum algorithm for linear systems of equations
, have quantum algorithms appearing to give super-polynomial speedups and are
-complete. Because these problems are BQP-complete, an equally fast classical algorithm for them would imply that "no quantum algorithm" provides a super-polynomial speedup, which is believed to be unlikely.
In addition to these problems, quantum algorithms are being explored for applications in cryptography, optimization, and machine learning, although most of these remain at the research stage and require significant advances in error correction and hardware scalability before practical implementation.
Some quantum algorithms, such as
Grover's algorithm
amplitude amplification
, give polynomial speedups over corresponding classical algorithms.
Though these algorithms give comparably modest quadratic speedup, they are widely applicable and thus give speedups for a wide range of problems.
These speed-ups are, however, over the theoretical worst-case of classical algorithms, and concrete real-world speed-ups over algorithms used in practice have not been demonstrated.
Simulation of quantum systems
Main article:
Quantum simulation
Since chemistry and nanotechnology rely on understanding quantum systems, and such systems are impossible to simulate in an efficient manner classically,
quantum simulation
may be an important application of quantum computing.
Quantum simulation could also be used to simulate the behavior of atoms and particles at unusual conditions such as the reactions inside a
In June 2023, IBM computer scientists reported that a quantum computer produced better results for a physics problem than a conventional supercomputer.
About 2% of the annual global energy output is used for
nitrogen fixation
Haber process
in the agricultural fertiliser industry (even though naturally occurring organisms also produce ammonia). Quantum simulations might be used to understand this process and increase the energy efficiency of production.
It is expected that an early use of quantum computing will be modeling that improves the efficiency of the Haber–Bosch process
by the mid-2020s
although some have predicted it will take longer.
Post-quantum cryptography
Main article:
Post-quantum cryptography
A notable application of quantum computing is in
cryptographic systems that are currently in use.
Integer factorization
, which underpins the security of
public key cryptographic
systems, is believed to be computationally infeasible on a
classical computer
for large integers if they are the product of a few
prime numbers
(e.g., the product of two 300-digit primes).
By contrast, a quantum computer could solve this problem exponentially faster using Shor's algorithm to factor the integer.
This ability would allow a quantum computer to break many of the
cryptographic
systems in use today, in the sense that there would be a
polynomial time
(in the number of digits of the integer) algorithm for solving the problem. In particular, most of the popular
public key ciphers
are based on the difficulty of factoring integers or the
discrete logarithm
problem, both of which can be solved by Shor's algorithm. In particular, the
Diffie–Hellman
elliptic curve Diffie–Hellman
algorithms could be broken. These are used to protect secure Web pages, encrypted email, and many other types of data. Breaking these would have significant ramifications for electronic privacy and security.
Identifying cryptographic systems that may be secure against quantum algorithms is an actively researched topic under the field of
post-quantum cryptography
Some public-key algorithms are based on problems other than the integer factorization and discrete logarithm problems to which Shor's algorithm applies, such as the
McEliece cryptosystem
, which relies on a hard problem in
coding theory
Lattice-based cryptosystems
are also not known to be broken by quantum computers, and finding a polynomial time algorithm for solving the
hidden subgroup problem
, which would break many lattice-based cryptosystems, is a well-studied open problem.
It has been shown that applying Grover's algorithm to break a
symmetric (secret-key) algorithm
by brute force requires time equal to roughly 2
invocations of the underlying cryptographic algorithm, compared with roughly 2
in the classical case,
meaning that symmetric key lengths are effectively halved: AES-256 would have comparable security against an attack using Grover's algorithm to that AES-128 has against classical brute-force search (see
Search problems
Main article:
Grover's algorithm
The most well-known example of a problem that allows for a polynomial quantum speedup is
unstructured search
, which involves finding a marked item out of a list of
{\displaystyle n}
items in a database. This can be solved by Grover's algorithm using
{\displaystyle O({\sqrt {n}})}
queries to the database, quadratically fewer than the
{\displaystyle \Omega (n)}
queries required for classical algorithms. In this case, the advantage is not only provable but also optimal: it has been shown that Grover's algorithm gives the maximal possible probability of finding the desired element for any number of oracle lookups. Many examples of provable quantum speedups for query problems are based on Grover's algorithm, including
Brassard, Høyer, and Tapp's algorithm
for finding collisions in two-to-one functions,
and Farhi, Goldstone, and Gutmann's algorithm for evaluating NAND trees.
Problems that can be efficiently addressed with Grover's algorithm have the following properties:
There is no searchable structure in the collection of possible answers,
The number of possible answers to check is the same as the number of inputs to the algorithm, and
There exists a Boolean function that evaluates each input and determines whether it is the correct answer.
For problems with all these properties, the running time of Grover's algorithm on a quantum computer scales as the square root of the number of inputs (or elements in the database), as opposed to the linear scaling of classical algorithms. A general class of problems to which Grover's algorithm can be applied
Boolean satisfiability problem
, where the
through which the algorithm iterates is that of all possible answers. An example and possible application of this is a
password cracker
that attempts to guess a password. Breaking
symmetric ciphers
with this algorithm is of interest to government agencies.
Quantum annealing
Quantum annealing
relies on the adiabatic theorem to undertake calculations. A system is placed in the ground state for a simple Hamiltonian, which slowly evolves to a more complicated Hamiltonian whose ground state represents the solution to the problem in question. The adiabatic theorem states that if the evolution is slow enough, the system will stay in its ground state at all times through the process. Quantum annealing can solve
Ising models
and the (computationally equivalent)
problem, which in turn can be used to encode a wide range of
combinatorial optimization
Adiabatic optimization may be helpful for solving
computational biology
Machine learning
Main article:
Quantum machine learning
Since quantum computers can produce outputs that classical computers cannot produce efficiently, and since quantum computation is fundamentally linear algebraic, some express hope in developing quantum algorithms that can speed up
machine learning
For example, the
HHL Algorithm
, named after its discoverers Harrow, Hassidim, and Lloyd, is believed to provide speedup over classical counterparts.
Some research groups have recently explored the use of quantum annealing hardware for training
Boltzmann machines
deep neural networks
Deep generative chemistry models emerge as powerful tools to expedite
drug discovery
. Early experimental work has explored the use of near-term quantum hardware in molecular generative modeling for drug discovery. In 2023, researchers at Gero reported a hybrid quantum–classical generative model based on a restricted Boltzmann machine, implemented on a commercially available quantum annealing device, to generate novel drug-like small molecules with physicochemical properties comparable to known medicinal compounds.
However, the immense size and complexity of the structural space of all possible drug-like molecules pose significant obstacles, which could be overcome in the future by quantum computers. Quantum computers are naturally good for solving complex quantum many-body problems
and thus may be instrumental in applications involving quantum chemistry. Therefore, one can expect that quantum-enhanced generative models
including quantum GANs
may eventually be developed into ultimate generative chemistry algorithms.
Engineering
As of 2023,
classical computers outperform quantum computers for all real-world applications. While current quantum computers may speed up solutions to particular mathematical problems, they give no computational advantage for practical tasks. Scientists and engineers are exploring multiple technologies for quantum computing hardware and hope to develop scalable quantum architectures, but serious obstacles remain.
There are a number of technical challenges in building a large-scale quantum computer.
David DiVincenzo
these requirements
for a practical quantum computer:
Physically scalable to increase the number of qubits
Qubits that can be initialized to arbitrary values
Quantum gates that are faster than
decoherence
Universal gate set
Qubits that can be read easily.
Sourcing parts for quantum computers is also very difficult.
Superconducting quantum computers
, like those constructed by
research byproduct, and special
superconducting
cables made only by the Japanese company Coax Co.
The control of multi-qubit systems requires the generation and coordination of a large number of electrical signals with tight and deterministic timing resolution. This has led to the development of
quantum controllers
that enable interfacing with the qubits. Scaling these systems to support a growing number of qubits is an additional challenge.
Decoherence
One of the greatest challenges involved in constructing quantum computers is controlling or removing quantum decoherence. This usually means isolating the system from its environment, as interactions with the external world cause the system to decohere. However, other sources of decoherence also exist. Examples include the quantum gates, the lattice vibrations, and the background thermonuclear spin of the physical system used to implement the qubits. Decoherence is irreversible, as it is effectively non-unitary, and is usually something that should be highly controlled, if not avoided. Decoherence times for candidate systems in particular, the transverse relaxation time
technology, also called the
dephasing time
), typically range between nanoseconds and seconds at low temperatures.
Currently, some quantum computers require their qubits to be cooled to 20 millikelvin (usually using a
dilution refrigerator
) in order to prevent significant decoherence.
A 2020 study argues that
ionizing radiation
cosmic rays
can nevertheless cause certain systems to decohere within milliseconds.
As a result, time-consuming tasks may render some quantum algorithms inoperable, as attempting to maintain the state of qubits for a long enough duration will eventually corrupt the superpositions.
These issues are more difficult for optical approaches as the timescales are orders of magnitude shorter, and an often-cited approach to overcoming them is optical
pulse shaping
. Error rates are typically proportional to the ratio of operating time to decoherence time; hence, any operation must be completed much more quickly than the decoherence time.
As described by the
threshold theorem
, if the error rate is small enough, it is thought to be possible to use
quantum error correction
to suppress errors and decoherence. This allows the total calculation time to be longer than the decoherence time if the error correction scheme can correct errors faster than decoherence introduces them. An often-cited figure for the required error rate in each gate for fault-tolerant computation is 10
, assuming the noise is depolarizing.
Meeting this scalability condition is possible for a wide range of systems. However, the use of error correction brings with it the cost of a greatly increased number of required qubits. The number required to factor integers using Shor's algorithm is still polynomial, and thought to be between
is the number of binary digits in the number to be factored; error correction algorithms would inflate this figure by an additional factor of
. For a 1000-bit number, this implies a need for about 10
bits without error correction.
With error correction, the figure would rise to about 10
bits. Computation time is about
or about 10
steps and at 1
MHz, about 10 seconds. However, the encoding and error-correction overheads increase the size of a real fault-tolerant quantum computer by several orders of magnitude. Careful estimates
show that at least 3
million physical qubits would factor 2,048-bit integer in 5 months on a fully error-corrected trapped-ion quantum computer. In terms of the number of physical qubits, to date, this remains the lowest estimate
for practically useful integer factorization problem sizing 1,024-bit or larger.
One approach to overcoming errors combines
low-density parity-check code
that have intrinsic bit-flip error suppression. Implementing 100 logical qubits with 768 cat qubits could reduce the error rate to one part in 10
per cycle per bit.
Another approach to the stability-decoherence problem is to create a
topological quantum computer
quasi-particles
used as threads, and relying on
braid theory
to form stable logic gates.
Non-Abelian anyons can, in effect, remember how they have been manipulated, making them potentially useful in quantum computing.
As of 2025, Microsoft and other organizations are investing in quasi-particle research.
Quantum supremacy
John Preskill
coined the term
quantum supremacy
to describe the engineering feat of demonstrating that a programmable quantum device can solve a problem beyond the capabilities of state-of-the-art classical computers.
The problem need not be useful, so some view the quantum supremacy test only as a potential future benchmark.
In October 2019, Google AI Quantum, with the help of NASA, became the first to claim to have achieved quantum supremacy by performing calculations on the
Sycamore quantum computer
more than 3,000,000 times faster than they could be done on
, generally considered the world's fastest computer.
This claim has been subsequently challenged: IBM has stated that Summit can perform samples much faster than claimed,
and researchers have since developed better algorithms for the sampling problem used to claim quantum supremacy, giving substantial reductions to the gap between Sycamore and classical supercomputers
and even beating it.
In December 2020, a group at
implemented a type of
Boson sampling
on 76 photons with a
photonic quantum computer
, to demonstrate quantum supremacy.
The authors claim that a classical contemporary supercomputer would require a computational time of 600 million years to generate the number of samples their quantum processor can generate in 20 seconds.
Claims of quantum supremacy have generated hype around quantum computing,
but they are based on contrived benchmark tasks that do not directly imply useful real-world applications.
In January 2024, a study published in
Physical Review Letters
provided direct verification of quantum supremacy experiments by computing exact amplitudes for experimentally generated bitstrings using a new-generation Sunway supercomputer, demonstrating a significant leap in simulation capability built on a multiple-amplitude tensor network contraction algorithm.
Despite high hopes for quantum computing, significant progress in hardware, and optimism about future applications, a 2023
spotlight article summarized current quantum computers as being "For now, [good for] absolutely nothing".
The article elaborated that quantum computers are yet to be more useful or efficient than conventional computers in any case, though it also argued that, in the long term, such computers are likely to be useful. A 2023
Communications of the ACM
found that current quantum computing algorithms are "insufficient for practical quantum advantage without significant improvements across the software/hardware stack". It argues that the most promising candidates for achieving speedup with quantum computers are "small-data problems", for example, in chemistry and materials science. However, the article also concludes that a large range of the potential applications it considered, such as machine learning, "will not achieve quantum advantage with current quantum algorithms in the foreseeable future", and it identified I/O constraints that make speedup unlikely for "big data problems, unstructured linear systems, and database search based on Grover's algorithm".
This state of affairs can be traced to several current and long-term considerations.
Conventional computer hardware and algorithms are not only optimized for practical tasks, but are still improving rapidly, particularly
accelerators.
Current quantum computing hardware generates only a limited amount of
entanglement
before getting overwhelmed by noise.
Quantum algorithms provide speedup over conventional algorithms only for some tasks, and matching these tasks with practical applications proved challenging. Some promising tasks and applications require resources far beyond those available today.
In particular, processing large amounts of non-quantum data is a challenge for quantum computers.
Some promising algorithms have been "dequantized", i.e., their non-quantum analogues with similar complexity have been found.
quantum error correction
is used to scale quantum computers to practical applications, its overhead may undermine the speedup offered by many quantum algorithms.
Complexity analysis of algorithms sometimes makes abstract assumptions that do not hold in applications. For example, input data may not already be available encoded in quantum states, and "oracle functions" used in Grover's algorithm often have internal structure that can be exploited for faster algorithms.
In particular, building computers with large numbers of qubits may be futile if those qubits are not connected well enough and cannot maintain a sufficiently high degree of entanglement for a long time. When trying to outperform conventional computers, quantum computing researchers often look for new tasks that can be solved on quantum computers, but this leaves the possibility that efficient non-quantum techniques will be developed in response, as seen for Quantum supremacy demonstrations. Therefore, it is desirable to prove lower bounds on the complexity of best possible non-quantum algorithms (which may be unknown) and show that some quantum algorithms asymptotically improve upon those bounds.
doubted the practicality of quantum computers in a paper published in 1994.
Paul Davies
argued that a 400-qubit computer would even come into conflict with the cosmological information bound implied by the
holographic principle
Skeptics like
doubt that quantum supremacy will ever be achieved.
Mikhail Dyakonov
has expressed skepticism of quantum computing as follows:
"So the number of continuous parameters describing the state of such a useful quantum computer at any given moment must be... about 10
... Could we ever learn to control the more than 10
continuously variable parameters defining the quantum state of such a system? My answer is simple.
Physical realizations
Further information:
List of proposed quantum registers
A practical quantum computer must use a physical system as a programmable quantum register.
Researchers are exploring several technologies as candidates for reliable qubit implementations.
Superconductors
trapped ions
are some of the most developed proposals, but experimentalists are considering other hardware possibilities as well.
For example,
topological quantum computer
approaches are being explored for more fault-tolerance computing systems.
The first quantum logic gates were implemented with
trapped ions
and prototype general-purpose machines with up to 20 qubits have been realized. However, the technology behind these devices combines complex vacuum equipment, lasers, and microwave and radio frequency equipment, making full-scale processors difficult to integrate with standard computing equipment. Moreover, the trapped ion system itself has engineering challenges to overcome.
The largest commercial systems are based on
superconductor
devices and have scaled to 2000 qubits. However, the error rates for larger machines have been on the order of 5%. Technologically, these devices are all cryogenic and scaling to large numbers of qubits requires wafer-scale integration, a serious engineering challenge by itself.
In addition to cryogenic platforms, room-temperature approaches to spin–photon interfaces have been experimentally demonstrated. In 2025, researchers at Stanford University realized a nanoscale device in which a thin layer of molybdenum diselenide is integrated on a nanostructured silicon substrate, enabling a spin–photon interface that operates at ambient conditions using structured “twisted” light to couple electronic and photonic degrees of freedom.
Such room-temperature, chip-integrated spin–photon interfaces are being investigated as potential building blocks for heterogeneous quantum networks that combine different qubit modalities and reduce reliance on large cryogenic infrastructures.
Potential applications
From the perspective of business management, the potential applications of quantum computing are commonly classified into four key domains: (1) cybersecurity; (2) data analytics and artificial intelligence; (3) optimization and simulation; and (4) data management and search.
Other applications include healthcare (i.e., drug discovery), financial modeling, and natural language processing.
Computability
Further information:
Computability theory
computational problem
solvable by a classical computer is also solvable by a quantum computer.
Intuitively, this is because it is believed that all physical phenomena, including the operation of classical computers, can be described using
quantum mechanics
, which underlies the operation of quantum computers.
Conversely, any problem solvable by a quantum computer is also solvable by a classical computer. It is possible to simulate both quantum and classical computers manually with just some paper and a pen, if given enough time. More formally, any quantum computer can be simulated by a
Turing machine
. In other words, quantum computers provide no additional power over classical computers in terms of
computability
. This means that quantum computers cannot solve
undecidable problems
halting problem
, and the existence of quantum computers does not disprove the
Church–Turing thesis
Main article:
Quantum complexity theory
While quantum computers cannot solve any problems that classical computers cannot already solve, it is suspected that they can solve certain problems faster than classical computers. For instance, it is known that quantum computers can efficiently
factor integers
, while this is not believed to be the case for classical computers.
The class of
that can be efficiently solved by a quantum computer with bounded error is called
, for "bounded error, quantum, polynomial time". More formally, BQP is the class of problems that can be solved by a polynomial-time quantum Turing machine with an error probability of at most 1/3. As a class of probabilistic problems, BQP is the quantum counterpart to
("bounded error, probabilistic, polynomial time"), the class of problems that can be solved by polynomial-time
probabilistic Turing machines
with bounded error.
It is known that
{\displaystyle {\mathsf {BPP\subseteq BQP}}}
and is widely suspected that
{\displaystyle {\mathsf {BQP\subsetneq BPP}}}
, which intuitively would mean that quantum computers are more powerful than classical computers in terms of
time complexity
The exact relationship of BQP to
is not known. However, it is known that
{\displaystyle {\mathsf {P\subseteq BQP\subseteq PSPACE}}}
; that is, all problems that can be efficiently solved by a deterministic classical computer can also be efficiently solved by a quantum computer, and all problems that can be efficiently solved by a quantum computer can also be solved by a deterministic classical computer with polynomial space resources. It is further suspected that BQP is a strict superset of P, meaning that there exist problems that are efficiently solvable by quantum computers that are not efficiently solvable by deterministic classical computers. For instance, integer factorization and the
discrete logarithm problem
are known to be in BQP and are suspected to be outside of P. On the relationship of BQP to NP, little is known beyond the fact that some NP problems that are believed not to be in P are also in BQP (integer factorization and the discrete logarithm problem are both in NP, for example). It is suspected that
{\displaystyle {\mathsf {NP\nsubseteq BQP}}}
; that is, it is believed that there are efficiently checkable problems that are not efficiently solvable by a quantum computer. As a direct consequence of this belief, it is also suspected that BQP is disjoint from the class of
NP-complete
problems (if an NP-complete problem were in BQP, then it would follow from
NP-hardness
that all problems in NP are in BQP).
Wikimedia Commons has media related to
Quantum computing
D-Wave Systems
– Quantum computing company
Electronic quantum holography
– Information storage technology
Glossary of quantum computing
Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity
– American government agency
India's quantum computer
– Indian proposed quantum computer
QpiAI-Indus
– India's first full stack quantum computer
– US information technology company
List of emerging technologies
– New technologies actively in development
List of quantum computing journals
List of quantum processors
Magic state distillation
– Quantum computing algorithm
Metacomputing
– Computing for the purpose of computing
Natural computing
– Methods that imitate, replicate or use natural processes
Non-local quantum computation
– Method of quantum computing via entanglement
Optical computing
– Computer that uses photons or light waves
Quantum bus
– Device to store or transfer information in quantum computing
Quantum cognition
– Application of quantum theory mathematics to cognitive phenomena
Quantum sensor
– Device measuring quantum mechanical effects
Quantum volume
– Metric for a quantum computer's capabilities
Quantum weirdness
– Unintuitive aspects of quantum mechanics
Rigetti Computing
– American quantum computing company
Supercomputer
– Type of extremely powerful computer
Theoretical computer science
– Subfield of computer science and mathematics
Unconventional computing
– Computing by new or unusual methods
Valleytronics
– Experimental area in semiconductors
standard basis
is also the
computational basis
Mermin 2007
Aaronson 2013
Zwiebach, Barton
Mastering Quantum Mechanics: Essentials, Theory, and Applications
. MIT Press. §1.
978-0-262-04613-8
Quantum physics has replaced classical physics as the correct fundamental description of our physical universe. It is used routinely to describe most phenomena that occur at short distances. [...] The era of quantum physics began in earnest in 1925 with the discoveries of Erwin Schrödinger and Werner Heisenberg. The seeds for these discoveries were planted by Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr, Louis de Broglie, and others.
Weinberg, Steven
(2015). "Historical Introduction".
Lectures on Quantum Mechanics
(2nd ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.
978-1-107-11166-0
Ceruzzi, Paul E. (2012).
Computing: A Concise History
Cambridge, Massachusetts
: MIT Press. pp. 3, 46.
978-0-262-31038-3
Hodges, Andrew
Alan Turing: The Enigma
. Princeton, New Jersey:
Princeton University Press
. p. xviii.
978-0-691-16472-4
Mårtensson-Pendrill, Ann-Marie (1 November 2006). "The Manhattan project—a part of physics history".
Physics Education
2006PhyEd..41..493M
10.1088/0031-9120/41/6/001
Benioff, Paul
(1980). "The computer as a physical system: A microscopic quantum mechanical Hamiltonian model of computers as represented by Turing machines".
Journal of Statistical Physics
1980JSP....22..563B
10.1007/bf01011339
Buluta, Iulia; Nori, Franco (2 October 2009). "Quantum Simulators".
2009Sci...326..108B
10.1126/science.1177838
Manin, Yu. I.
Vychislimoe i nevychislimoe
Computable and Noncomputable
] (in Russian). Soviet Radio. pp.
15. Archived from
the original
on 10 May 2013
. Retrieved
Feynman, Richard
(June 1982).
"Simulating Physics with Computers"
International Journal of Theoretical Physics
1982IJTP...21..467F
10.1007/BF02650179
. Archived from
the original
on 8 January 2019
. Retrieved
28 February
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Bennett, C. H.; Brassard, G. (1984). "Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and coin tossing".
Proceedings of the International Conference on Computers, Systems & Signal Processing, Bangalore, India
. Vol. 1. New York: IEEE. pp.
Reprinted as
Bennett, C. H.; Brassard, G. (4 December 2014).
"Quantum cryptography: Public key distribution and coin tossing"
Theoretical Computer Science
. Theoretical Aspects of Quantum Cryptography – celebrating 30 years of BB84.
2014TComS.560....7B
10.1016/j.tcs.2014.05.025
Brassard, G. (2005). "Brief history of quantum cryptography: A personal perspective".
IEEE Information Theory Workshop on Theory and Practice in Information-Theoretic Security, 2005
. Awaji Island, Japan: IEEE. pp.
quant-ph/0604072
10.1109/ITWTPI.2005.1543949
978-0-7803-9491-9
Deutsch, D. (8 July 1985). "Quantum theory, the Church–Turing principle and the universal quantum computer".
Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. A. Mathematical and Physical Sciences
1985RSPSA.400...97D
10.1098/rspa.1985.0070
Bernstein, Ethan; Vazirani, Umesh (1993).
"Quantum complexity theory"
Proceedings of the twenty-fifth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing – STOC '93
. San Diego, California, United States: ACM Press. pp.
10.1145/167088.167097
978-0-89791-591-5
Simon, D. R. (1994). "On the power of quantum computation".
Proceedings 35th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
. Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA: IEEE Comput. Soc. Press. pp.
10.1109/SFCS.1994.365701
978-0-8186-6580-6
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
, p. 30-32.
Grover, Lov K. (1996).
A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search
. ACM symposium on Theory of computing.
Philadelphia
: ACM Press. pp.
quant-ph/9605043
10.1145/237814.237866
978-0-89791-785-8
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Lloyd, Seth (23 August 1996). "Universal Quantum Simulators".
1996Sci...273.1073L
10.1126/science.273.5278.1073
Cao, Yudong; Romero, Jonathan; Olson, Jonathan P.; Degroote, Matthias; Johnson, Peter D.; et al. (9 October 2019). "Quantum Chemistry in the Age of Quantum Computing".
Chemical Reviews
2019ChRv..11910856C
10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00803
Grumbling & Horowitz 2019
, pp. 164–169.
Chuang, Isaac L.; Gershenfeld, Neil; Kubinec, Markdoi (April 1998). "Experimental Implementation of Fast Quantum Searching".
Physical Review Letters
American Physical Society
1998PhRvL..80.3408C
10.1103/PhysRevLett.80.3408
Holton, William Coffeen.
"quantum computer"
Encyclopedia Britannica
Encyclopædia Britannica
. Retrieved
Gibney, Elizabeth (23 October 2019).
"Hello quantum world! Google publishes landmark quantum supremacy claim"
2019Natur.574..461G
10.1038/d41586-019-03213-z
Lay summary:
Martinis, John; Boixo, Sergio (23 October 2019).
"Quantum Supremacy Using a Programmable Superconducting Processor"
2019Natur.574..505A
10.1038/s41586-019-1666-5
. Retrieved
• Journal article:
Arute, Frank; Arya, Kunal; Babbush, Ryan; Bacon, Dave; Bardin, Joseph C.; et al. (23 October 2019). "Quantum supremacy using a programmable superconducting processor".
2019Natur.574..505A
10.1038/s41586-019-1666-5
Aaronson, Scott (30 October 2019).
"Opinion | Why Google's Quantum Supremacy Milestone Matters"
The New York Times
. Retrieved
25 September
Pan, Feng; Zhang, Pan (4 March 2021). "Simulating the Sycamore quantum supremacy circuits".
Sample, Ian (23 October 2019).
"Google claims it has achieved 'quantum supremacy' – but IBM disagrees"
The Guardian
. Retrieved
Bennett, Charlie
(31 July 2020).
Information Is Quantum: How Physics Helped Explain the Nature of Information and What Can Be Done With It
(Videotape).  Event occurs at 1:08:22 – via YouTube.
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Mermin 2007
Mermin 2007
Aaronson 2013
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
, p. 30–32.
Mermin 2007
, pp. 38–39.
Kurgalin, Sergei; Borzunov, Sergei (2021).
Concise guide to quantum computing: algorithms, exercises, and implementations
. Texts in computer science. Cham: Springer.
978-3-030-65054-4
Das, A.; Chakrabarti, B. K. (2008). "Quantum Annealing and Analog Quantum Computation".
Rev. Mod. Phys.
2008RvMP...80.1061D
10.1.1.563.9990
10.1103/RevModPhys.80.1061
Nayak, Chetan; Simon, Steven; Stern, Ady; Das Sarma, Sankar (2008). "Nonabelian Anyons and Quantum Computation".
Reviews of Modern Physics
2008RvMP...80.1083N
10.1103/RevModPhys.80.1083
Chi-Chih Yao, A. (1993). "Quantum circuit complexity".
Proceedings of 1993 IEEE 34th Annual Foundations of Computer Science
10.1109/SFCS.1993.366852
0-8186-4370-6
Raussendorf, Robert; Browne, Daniel E.; Briegel, Hans J. (25 August 2003). "Measurement-based quantum computation on cluster states".
Physical Review A
(2) 022312.
quant-ph/0301052
2003PhRvA..68b2312R
10.1103/PhysRevA.68.022312
Aharonov, Dorit; van Dam, Wim; Kempe, Julia; Landau, Zeph; Lloyd, Seth; Regev, Oded (1 January 2008). "Adiabatic Quantum Computation Is Equivalent to Standard Quantum Computation".
SIAM Review
quant-ph/0405098
2008SIAMR..50..755A
10.1137/080734479
Freedman, Michael H.; Larsen, Michael; Wang, Zhenghan (1 June 2002). "A Modular Functor Which is Universal for Quantum Computation".
Communications in Mathematical Physics
quant-ph/0001108
2002CMaPh.227..605F
10.1007/s002200200645
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Preskill, John (6 August 2018).
"Quantum Computing in the NISQ era and beyond"
2018Quant...2...79P
10.22331/q-2018-08-06-79
Bluvstein, Dolev; Evered, Simon J.; Geim, Alexandra A.; Li, Sophie H.; Zhou, Hengyun; Manovitz, Tom; Ebadi, Sepehr; Cain, Madelyn; Kalinowski, Marcin; Hangleiter, Dominik; Ataides, J. Pablo Bonilla; Maskara, Nishad; Cong, Iris; Gao, Xun; Rodriguez, Pedro Sales (6 December 2023).
"Logical quantum processor based on reconfigurable atom arrays"
10.1038/s41586-023-06927-3
"DARPA-Funded Research Leads to Quantum Computing Breakthrough"
. 6 December 2023
. Retrieved
Choudhury, Rizwan (30 December 2023).
"Top 7 innovation stories of 2023 – Interesting Engineering"
interestingengineering.com
. Retrieved
Gisin, Nicolas; Ribordy, Grégoire; Tittel, Wolfgang; Zbinden, Hugo (8 March 2002).
"Quantum cryptography"
Reviews of Modern Physics
quant-ph/0101098
2002RvMP...74..145G
10.1103/RevModPhys.74.145
Pirandola, S.; Andersen, U. L.; Banchi, L.; Berta, M.; Bunandar, D.; Colbeck, R.; Englund, D.; Gehring, T.; Lupo, C.; Ottaviani, C.; Pereira, J.; Razavi, M.; Shamsul Shaari, J.; Tomamichel, M.; Usenko, V. C.; Vallone, G.; Villoresi, P.; Wallden, P. (2020). "Advances in quantum cryptography".
Advances in Optics and Photonics
2020AdOP...12.1012P
10.1364/AOP.361502
Xu, Feihu; Ma, Xiongfeng; Zhang, Qiang; Lo, Hoi-Kwong; Pan, Jian-Wei (26 May 2020). "Secure quantum key distribution with realistic devices".
Reviews of Modern Physics
(2): 025002-3.
2020RvMP...92b5002X
10.1103/RevModPhys.92.025002
Xu, Guobin; Mao, Jianzhou; Sakk, Eric; Wang, Shuangbao Paul (22 March 2023). "An Overview of Quantum-Safe Approaches: Quantum Key Distribution and Post-Quantum Cryptography".
2023 57th Annual Conference on Information Sciences and Systems (CISS)
10.1109/CISS56502.2023.10089619
978-1-6654-5181-9
Kozlowski, Wojciech; Wehner, Stephanie (25 September 2019). "Towards Large-Scale Quantum Networks".
Proceedings of the Sixth Annual ACM International Conference on Nanoscale Computing and Communication
10.1145/3345312.3345497
978-1-4503-6897-1
Guo, Xueshi; Breum, Casper R.; Borregaard, Johannes; Izumi, Shuro; Larsen, Mikkel V.; Gehring, Tobias; Christandl, Matthias; Neergaard-Nielsen, Jonas S.; Andersen, Ulrik L. (23 December 2019). "Distributed quantum sensing in a continuous-variable entangled network".
Nature Physics
10.1038/s41567-019-0743-x
Jordan, Stephen (14 October 2022) [22 April 2011].
"Quantum Algorithm Zoo"
from the original on 29 April 2018.
Aaronson, Scott
; Arkhipov, Alex (6 June 2011). "The computational complexity of linear optics".
Proceedings of the forty-third annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing
San Jose, California
Association for Computing Machinery
10.1145/1993636.1993682
978-1-4503-0691-1
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Preskill 2018
Norton, Quinn (15 February 2007).
"The Father of Quantum Computing"
Ambainis, Andris (Spring 2014).
"What Can We Do with a Quantum Computer?"
. Institute for Advanced Study.
Chang, Kenneth (14 June 2023).
"Quantum Computing Advance Begins New Era, IBM Says – A quantum computer came up with better answers to a physics problem than a conventional supercomputer"
The New York Times
from the original on 14 June 2023
. Retrieved
Kim, Youngseok; et al. (14 June 2023).
"Evidence for the utility of quantum computing before fault tolerance"
2023Natur.618..500K
10.1038/s41586-023-06096-3
Morello, Andrea
(21 November 2018).
Lunch & Learn: Quantum Computing
. Archived from the original on 15 February 2021
. Retrieved
– via YouTube.
cite AV media
:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (
Ruane, Jonathan; McAfee, Andrew; Oliver, William D. (1 January 2022).
"Quantum Computing for Business Leaders"
Harvard Business Review
. Retrieved
Budde, Florian; Volz, Daniel (12 July 2019).
"Quantum computing and the chemical industry | McKinsey"
www.mckinsey.com
. McKinsey and Company
. Retrieved
Bourzac, Katherine (30 October 2017).
"Chemistry is quantum computing's killer app"
cen.acs.org
. American Chemical Society
. Retrieved
Lenstra, Arjen K. (2000).
"Integer Factoring"
Designs, Codes and Cryptography
10.1023/A:1008397921377
. Archived from
the original
on 10 April 2015.
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Bernstein, Daniel J. (2009). "Introduction to post-quantum cryptography".
Post-Quantum Cryptography
. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer. pp.
10.1007/978-3-540-88702-7_1
978-3-540-88701-0
pqcrypto.org
, a bibliography maintained by Daniel J. Bernstein and
Tanja Lange
on cryptography not known to be broken by quantum computing.
McEliece, R. J. (January 1978).
"A Public-Key Cryptosystem Based On Algebraic Coding Theory"
1978DSNPR..44..114M
Kobayashi, H.; Gall, F. L. (2006).
"Dihedral Hidden Subgroup Problem: A Survey"
Information and Media Technologies
10.2197/ipsjdc.1.470
Bennett, Charles H.; Bernstein, Ethan; Brassard, Gilles; Vazirani, Umesh (October 1997). "Strengths and Weaknesses of Quantum Computing".
SIAM Journal on Computing
quant-ph/9701001
1997quant.ph..1001B
10.1137/s0097539796300933
Brassard, Gilles; Høyer, Peter; Tapp, Alain (2016). "Quantum Algorithm for the Collision Problem". In Kao, Ming-Yang (ed.).
Encyclopedia of Algorithms
. New York, New York: Springer. pp.
quant-ph/9705002
10.1007/978-1-4939-2864-4_304
978-1-4939-2864-4
Farhi, Edward; Goldstone, Jeffrey; Gutmann, Sam (23 December 2008).
"A Quantum Algorithm for the Hamiltonian NAND Tree"
Theory of Computing
10.4086/toc.2008.v004a008
Williams, Colin P. (2011).
Explorations in Quantum Computing
978-1-84628-887-6
Grover, Lov
(29 May 1996). "A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search".
quant-ph/9605043
Ambainis, Ambainis (June 2004). "Quantum search algorithms".
ACM SIGACT News
quant-ph/0504012
2005quant.ph..4012A
10.1145/992287.992296
Rich, Steven; Gellman, Barton (1 February 2014).
"NSA seeks to build quantum computer that could crack most types of encryption"
The Washington Post
Lucas, Andrew (2014).
"Ising formulations of many NP problems"
Frontiers in Physics
2014FrP.....2....5L
10.3389/fphy.2014.00005
Outeiral, Carlos; Strahm, Martin; Morris, Garrett; Benjamin, Simon; Deane, Charlotte; Shi, Jiye (2021).
"The prospects of quantum computing in computational molecular biology"
WIREs Computational Molecular Science
10.1002/wcms.1481
Biamonte, Jacob; Wittek, Peter; Pancotti, Nicola; Rebentrost, Patrick; Wiebe, Nathan; Lloyd, Seth (September 2017). "Quantum machine learning".
2017Natur.549..195B
10.1038/nature23474
Harrow, Aram; Hassidim, Avinatan; Lloyd, Seth (2009). "Quantum algorithm for solving linear systems of equations".
Physical Review Letters
(15) 150502.
2009PhRvL.103o0502H
10.1103/PhysRevLett.103.150502
Benedetti, Marcello; Realpe-Gómez, John; Biswas, Rupak; Perdomo-Ortiz, Alejandro (9 August 2016).
"Estimation of effective temperatures in quantum annealers for sampling applications: A case study with possible applications in deep learning"
Physical Review A
(2) 022308.
2016PhRvA..94b2308B
10.1103/PhysRevA.94.022308
Ajagekar, Akshay; You, Fengqi (5 December 2020). "Quantum computing assisted deep learning for fault detection and diagnosis in industrial process systems".
Computers & Chemical Engineering
10.1016/j.compchemeng.2020.107119
Ajagekar, Akshay; You, Fengqi (1 December 2021).
"Quantum computing based hybrid deep learning for fault diagnosis in electrical power systems"
Applied Energy
2021ApEn..30317628A
10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117628
, Peter; Pyrkov, Timothy; Krylov, Ivan (2023). "Quantum machine learning for drug discovery".
Scientific Reports
10.1038/s41598-023-32703-4
Borfitz, Deborah (22 August 2023).
"Gero Taps Quantum Computing and AI To Tackle Diseases Of Aging"
Bio-IT World
Gao, Xun; Anschuetz, Eric R.; Wang, Sheng-Tao; Cirac, J. Ignacio; Lukin, Mikhail D. (2022). "Enhancing Generative Models via Quantum Correlations".
Physical Review X
(2) 021037.
2022PhRvX..12b1037G
10.1103/PhysRevX.12.021037
Li, Junde; Topaloglu, Rasit; Ghosh, Swaroop (9 January 2021). "Quantum Generative Models for Small Molecule Drug Discovery".
IEEE Transactions on Quantum Engineering
2021ITQE....2E4804L
10.1109/TQE.2021.3104804
Brooks, Michael (24 May 2023).
"Quantum computers: what are they good for?"
2023Natur.617S...1B
10.1038/d41586-023-01692-9
Torsten Hoefler; Thomas Häner; Matthias Troyer (May 2023).
"Disentangling Hype from Practicality: On Realistically Achieving Quantum Advantage"
. Communications of the ACM.
Dyakonov, Mikhail (15 November 2018).
"The Case Against Quantum Computing"
IEEE Spectrum
DiVincenzo, David P. (13 April 2000). "The Physical Implementation of Quantum Computation".
Fortschritte der Physik
quant-ph/0002077
2000ForPh..48..771D
10.1002/1521-3978(200009)48:9/11<771::AID-PROP771>3.0.CO;2-E
Giles, Martin (17 January 2019).
"We'd have more quantum computers if it weren't so hard to find the damn cables"
. MIT Technology Review
. Retrieved
Pauka SJ, Das K, Kalra B, Moini A, Yang Y, Trainer M, Bousquet A, Cantaloube C, Dick N, Gardner GC, Manfra MJ, Reilly DJ (2021).
"A cryogenic CMOS chip for generating control signals for multiple qubits"
Nature Electronics
10.1038/s41928-020-00528-y
DiVincenzo, David P. (1995). "Quantum Computation".
1995Sci...270..255D
10.1.1.242.2165
10.1126/science.270.5234.255
Zu, H.; Dai, W.; de Waele, A.T.A.M. (2022). "Development of Dilution refrigerators – A review".
10.1016/j.cryogenics.2021.103390
Jones, Nicola (19 June 2013).
"Computing: The quantum company"
2013Natur.498..286J
10.1038/498286a
Vepsäläinen, Antti P.; Karamlou, Amir H.; Orrell, John L.; Dogra, Akshunna S.; Loer, Ben; et al. (August 2020).
"Impact of ionizing radiation on superconducting qubit coherence"
2020Natur.584..551V
10.1038/s41586-020-2619-8
Amy, Matthew; Matteo, Olivia; Gheorghiu, Vlad; Mosca, Michele; Parent, Alex; Schanck, John (30 November 2016). "Estimating the cost of generic quantum pre-image attacks on SHA-2 and SHA-3".
Dyakonov, M. I. (14 October 2006). S. Luryi; Xu, J.; Zaslavsky, A. (eds.). "Is Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation Really Possible?".
Future Trends in Microelectronics. Up the Nano Creek
quant-ph/0610117
2006quant.ph.10117D
Ahsan, Muhammad (2015).
Architecture Framework for Trapped-ion Quantum Computer based on Performance Simulation Tool
2015PhDT........56A
Ahsan, Muhammad; Meter, Rodney Van; Kim, Jungsang (28 December 2016).
"Designing a Million-Qubit Quantum Computer Using a Resource Performance Simulator"
ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems
(4): 39:1–39:25.
10.1145/2830570
Gidney, Craig; Ekerå, Martin (15 April 2021). "How to factor 2048 bit RSA integers in 8 hours using 20 million noisy qubits".
2021Quant...5..433G
10.22331/q-2021-04-15-433
Ruiz, Diego; Guillaud, Jérémie; Leverrier, Anthony; Mirrahimi, Mazyar; Vuillot, Christophe (26 January 2025).
"LDPC-cat codes for low-overhead quantum computing in 2D"
Nature Communications
2025NatCo..16.1040R
10.1038/s41467-025-56298-8
Freedman, Michael H.
Kitaev, Alexei
Larsen, Michael J.
; Wang, Zhenghan (2003). "Topological quantum computation".
Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society
quant-ph/0101025
10.1090/S0273-0979-02-00964-3
Monroe, Don (1 October 2008).
"Anyons: The breakthrough quantum computing needs?"
New Scientist
Cossins, Daniel (28 June 2025). "How to think about...Quasiparticles".
New Scientist
(3549): 34.
10.1016/S0262-4079(25)01046-2
Preskill, John (26 March 2012). "Quantum computing and the entanglement frontier".
Boixo, Sergio; Isakov, Sergei V.; Smelyanskiy, Vadim N.; Babbush, Ryan; Ding, Nan; et al. (2018). "Characterizing Quantum Supremacy in Near-Term Devices".
Nature Physics
2018NatPh..14..595B
10.1038/s41567-018-0124-x
Savage, Neil (5 July 2017).
"Quantum Computers Compete for "Supremacy"
Scientific American
Giles, Martin (20 September 2019).
"Google researchers have reportedly achieved 'quantum supremacy'
MIT Technology Review
. Retrieved
Tavares, Frank (23 October 2019).
"Google and NASA Achieve Quantum Supremacy"
. Retrieved
16 November
Pednault, Edwin; Gunnels, John A.; Nannicini, Giacomo; Horesh, Lior; Wisnieff, Robert (22 October 2019). "Leveraging Secondary Storage to Simulate Deep 54-qubit Sycamore Circuits".
Cho, Adrian (23 October 2019).
"IBM casts doubt on Google's claims of quantum supremacy"
10.1126/science.aaz6080
Liu, Yong (Alexander); Liu, Xin (Lucy); Li, Fang (Nancy); Fu, Haohuan; Yang, Yuling; et al. (14 November 2021). "Closing the "quantum supremacy" gap".
Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis
. SC '21. New York, New York: Association for Computing Machinery. pp.
10.1145/3458817.3487399
978-1-4503-8442-1
Bulmer, Jacob F. F.; Bell, Bryn A.; Chadwick, Rachel S.; Jones, Alex E.; Moise, Diana; et al. (28 January 2022).
"The boundary for quantum advantage in Gaussian boson sampling"
Science Advances
(4) eabl9236.
2022SciA....8.9236B
10.1126/sciadv.abl9236
McCormick, Katie (10 February 2022).
"Race Not Over Between Classical and Quantum Computers"
2022PhyOJ..15...19M
10.1103/Physics.15.19
Pan, Feng; Chen, Keyang; Zhang, Pan (2022). "Solving the Sampling Problem of the Sycamore Quantum Circuits".
Physical Review Letters
(9) 090502.
2022PhRvL.129i0502P
10.1103/PhysRevLett.129.090502
Cho, Adrian (2 August 2022).
"Ordinary computers can beat Google's quantum computer after all"
10.1126/science.ade2364
"Google's 'quantum supremacy' usurped by researchers using ordinary supercomputer"
. 5 August 2022
. Retrieved
Ball, Philip (3 December 2020). "Physicists in China challenge Google's 'quantum advantage'
(7838): 380.
2020Natur.588..380B
10.1038/d41586-020-03434-7
Garisto, Daniel.
"Light-based Quantum Computer Exceeds Fastest Classical Supercomputers"
Scientific American
. Retrieved
Conover, Emily (3 December 2020).
"The new light-based quantum computer Jiuzhang has achieved quantum supremacy"
Science News
. Retrieved
Zhong, Han-Sen; Wang, Hui; Deng, Yu-Hao; Chen, Ming-Cheng; Peng, Li-Chao; et al. (3 December 2020). "Quantum computational advantage using photons".
2020Sci...370.1460Z
10.1126/science.abe8770
Roberson, Tara M. (21 May 2020).
"Can Hype Be a Force for Good?"
Public Understanding of Science
10.1177/0963662520923109
Cavaliere, Fabio; Mattsson, John; Smeets, Ben (September 2020).
"The security implications of quantum cryptography and quantum computing"
Network Security
10.1016/S1353-4858(20)30105-7
Liu, Yong; Chen, Yaojian; Guo, Chu; Song, Jiawei; Shi, Xinmin; Gan, Lin; Wu, Wenzhao; Wu, Wei; Fu, Haohuan; Liu, Xin; Chen, Dexun; Zhao, Zhifeng; Yang, Guangwen; Gao, Jiangang (16 January 2024).
"Verifying Quantum Advantage Experiments with Multiple Amplitude Tensor Network Contraction"
Physical Review Letters
(3) 030601.
2024PhRvL.132c0601L
10.1103/PhysRevLett.132.030601
Monroe, Don (December 2022).
"Quantum Computers and the Universe"
. Communications of the ACM.
Swayne, Matt (20 June 2023).
"PsiQuantum Sees 700x Reduction in Computational Resource Requirements to Break Elliptic Curve Cryptography With a Fault Tolerant Quantum Computer"
The Quanrum Insider
Unruh, Bill (1995). "Maintaining coherence in Quantum Computers".
Physical Review A
hep-th/9406058
1995PhRvA..51..992U
10.1103/PhysRevA.51.992
Davies, Paul (6 March 2007). "The implications of a holographic universe for quantum information science and the nature of physical law".
quant-ph/0703041
Regan, K. W. (23 April 2016).
"Quantum Supremacy and Complexity"
Gödel's Lost Letter and P=NP
Kalai, Gil (May 2016).
"The Quantum Computer Puzzle"
Notices of the AMS
Rinott, Yosef; Shoham, Tomer; Kalai, Gil (13 July 2021). "Statistical Aspects of the Quantum Supremacy Demonstration".
Dyakonov, Mikhail (15 November 2018).
"The Case Against Quantum Computing"
IEEE Spectrum
. Retrieved
Russell, John (10 January 2019).
"IBM Quantum Update: Q System One Launch, New Collaborators, and QC Center Plans"
. Retrieved
Tacchino, Francesco; Chiesa, Alessandro; Carretta, Stefano; Gerace, Dario (19 December 2019).
"Quantum Computers as Universal Quantum Simulators: State-of-the-Art and Perspectives"
Advanced Quantum Technologies
(3) 1900052.
10.1002/qute.201900052
Grumbling & Horowitz 2019
Grumbling & Horowitz 2019
Nayak, Chetan; Simon, Steven H.; Stern, Ady; Freedman, Michael; Das Sarma, Sankar (12 September 2008).
"Non-Abelian anyons and topological quantum computation"
Reviews of Modern Physics
2008RvMP...80.1083N
10.1103/RevModPhys.80.1083
Grumbling & Horowitz 2019
Grumbling & Horowitz 2019
"Scientists achieve breakthrough on quantum signaling"
Stanford Report
. Stanford University. 1 December 2025
. Retrieved
Pan, F.; Liu, F.; Heinz, T. F.; Dionne, J. A. (2025). "Room-temperature spin–photon interface in a molybdenum diselenide–silicon nanostructured device".
Nature Communications
"Room-Temperature Device Advances Quantum Communication"
Quantum Zeitgeist
. 2 December 2025
. Retrieved
Leong, Kelvin; Sung, Anna (November 2022).
"What Business Managers Should Know About Quantum Computing?"
Journal of Interdisciplinary Sciences
. Retrieved
"10 Quantum Computing Applications & Examples to Know"
. Retrieved
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Nielsen & Chuang 2010
Bernstein, Ethan; Vazirani, Umesh (1997).
"Quantum Complexity Theory"
SIAM Journal on Computing
10.1.1.144.7852
10.1137/S0097539796300921
Aaronson, Scott
Quantum Computing Since Democritus
. Cambridge University Press.
10.1017/CBO9780511979309
978-0-521-19956-8
Grumbling, Emily; Horowitz, Mark, eds. (2019).
Quantum Computing: Progress and Prospects
. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.
10.17226/25196
978-0-309-47970-7
Mermin, N. David
Quantum Computer Science: An Introduction
10.1017/CBO9780511813870
978-0-511-34258-5
Nielsen, Michael
Chuang, Isaac
Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
(10th anniversary ed.).
10.1017/CBO9780511976667
978-0-511-99277-3
Shor, Peter W.
Algorithms for Quantum Computation: Discrete Logarithms and Factoring
Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
Santa Fe, New Mexico
10.1109/SFCS.1994.365700
978-0-8186-6580-6
Further reading
Benenti, Giuliano; Casati, Giulio; Rossini, Davide; Strini, Giuliano (2019).
Principles of Quantum Computation and Information: A Comprehensive Textbook
10.1142/10909
978-981-3237-23-0
Bernhardt, Chris (2019).
Quantum Computing for Everyone
. MIT Press.
978-0-262-35091-4
Exman, Iaakov; Pérez-Castillo, Ricardo; Piattini, Mario; Felderer, Michael, eds. (2024).
Quantum Software: Aspects of Theory and System Design
Springer Nature
10.1007/978-3-031-64136-7
978-3-031-64136-7
Hidary, Jack D. (2021).
Quantum Computing: An Applied Approach
10.1007/978-3-030-83274-2
978-3-03-083274-2
Hiroshi, Imai; Masahito, Hayashi, eds. (2006).
Quantum Computation and Information: From Theory to Experiment
. Topics in Applied Physics. Vol. 102.
10.1007/3-540-33133-6
978-3-540-33133-9
Hughes, Ciaran; Isaacson, Joshua; Perry, Anastasia; Sun, Ranbel F.; Turner, Jessica (2021).
Quantum Computing for the Quantum Curious
10.1007/978-3-030-61601-4
978-3-03-061601-4
Jaeger, Gregg (2007).
Quantum Information: An Overview
10.1007/978-0-387-36944-0
978-0-387-36944-0
Johnston, Eric R.; Harrigan, Nic; Gimeno-Segovia, Mercedes (2019).
Programming Quantum Computers: Essential Algorithms and Code Samples
. O'Reilly Media, Incorporated.
978-1-4920-3968-6
Kaye, Phillip;
Laflamme, Raymond
Mosca, Michele
An Introduction to Quantum Computing
. OUP Oxford.
978-0-19-857000-4
Kitaev, Alexei Yu.
; Shen, Alexander H.; Vyalyi, Mikhail N. (2002).
Classical and Quantum Computation
. American Mathematical Soc.
978-0-8218-3229-5
Kurgalin, Sergei; Borzunov, Sergei (2021).
Concise Guide to Quantum Computing: Algorithms, Exercises, and Implementations
. Springer.
10.1007/978-3-030-65052-0
978-3-030-65052-0
Stolze, Joachim; Suter, Dieter (2004).
Quantum Computing: A Short Course from Theory to Experiment
10.1002/9783527617760
978-3-527-61776-0
Susskind, Leonard
; Friedman, Art (2014).
Quantum Mechanics: The Theoretical Minimum
Basic Books
978-0-465-08061-8
Wichert, Andreas (2020).
Principles of Quantum Artificial Intelligence: Quantum Problem Solving and Machine Learning
10.1142/11938
978-981-12-2431-7
Wong, Thomas (2022).
Introduction to Classical and Quantum Computing
. Rooted Grove.
979-8-9855931-0-5
. Archived from
the original
on 29 January 2022
. Retrieved
Zeng, Bei; Chen, Xie; Zhou, Duan-Lu; Wen, Xiao-Gang (2019).
Quantum Information Meets Quantum Matter
10.1007/978-1-4939-9084-9
978-1-4939-9084-9
Academic papers
Abbot, Derek
Doering, Charles R.
Caves, Carlton M.
Lidar, Daniel M.
Brandt, Howard E.
; et al. (2003). "Dreams versus Reality: Plenary Debate Session on Quantum Computing".
Quantum Information Processing
quant-ph/0310130
2003QuIP....2..449A
10.1023/B:QINP.0000042203.24782.9a
2027.42/45526
Berthiaume, Andre (1 December 1998). "Quantum Computation".
Solution Manual for Quantum Mechanics
10.1142/9789814541893_0016
978-981-4541-88-6
– via Semantic Scholar.
DiVincenzo, David P.
(2000). "The Physical Implementation of Quantum Computation".
Fortschritte der Physik
quant-ph/0002077
2000ForPh..48..771D
10.1002/1521-3978(200009)48:9/11<771::AID-PROP771>3.0.CO;2-E
DiVincenzo, David P. (1995). "Quantum Computation".
1995Sci...270..255D
10.1.1.242.2165
10.1126/science.270.5234.255
Table 1 lists switching and dephasing times for various systems.
Jeutner, Valentin (2021).
"The Quantum Imperative: Addressing the Legal Dimension of Quantum Computers"
Morals & Machines
10.5771/2747-5174-2021-1-52
Krantz, P.; Kjaergaard, M.; Yan, F.; Orlando, T. P.; Gustavsson, S.; Oliver, W. D. (17 June 2019). "A Quantum Engineer's Guide to Superconducting Qubits".
Applied Physics Reviews
(2): 021318.
2019ApPRv...6b1318K
10.1063/1.5089550
Mitchell, Ian (1998).
"Computing Power into the 21st Century: Moore's Law and Beyond"
Simon, Daniel R. (1994).
"On the Power of Quantum Computation"
. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society Press.
External links
Media related to
Quantum computer
at Wikimedia Commons
Learning materials related to
Quantum computing
at Wikiversity
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Quantum Computing
" by Amit Hagar and Michael E. Cuffaro
"Quantum computation, theory of"
Encyclopedia of Mathematics
, 2001 [1994]
Introduction to Quantum Computing for Business by Koen Groenland
Schneider, J., & Smalley, I. (2024, August 5).
What Is Quantum Computing? | IBM
https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/quantum-computing
Quantum computing for the determined
– 22 video lectures by
Michael Nielsen
Video Lectures
10 February 2010 at the
Wayback Machine
David Deutsch
Lomonaco, Sam.
Four Lectures on Quantum Computing given at Oxford University in July 2006
Processor technologies
Abstract machine
Stored-program computer
Finite-state machine
with datapath
Hierarchical
Deterministic finite automaton
Queue automaton
Cellular automaton
Quantum cellular automaton
Turing machine
Alternating Turing machine
Post–Turing
Nondeterministic Turing machine
Probabilistic Turing machine
Hypercomputation
Zeno machine
Belt machine
Stack machine
Register machines
Random-access
Random-access stored program
Architecture
Microarchitecture
Von Neumann
Transport-triggered
Memory access
Register/memory
Cache hierarchy
Memory hierarchy
Virtual memory
Secondary storage
Heterogeneous
Multiprocessing
Neuromorphic
Instruction set
architectures
Orthogonal instruction set
Application-specific
VISC architecture
Quantum computing
Addressing modes
Instruction
Motorola 68000 series
Stanford MIPS
Clipper architecture
z/Architecture
VISC architecture
Epiphany architecture
Instruction pipelining
Pipeline stall
Operand forwarding
Classic RISC pipeline
Data dependency
False sharing
Out-of-order
Scoreboarding
Tomasulo's algorithm
Reservation station
Re-order buffer
Register renaming
Speculative
Branch prediction
Memory dependence prediction
Parallelism
Instruction
Superscalar
Distributed
Multithreading
Simultaneous
Hyperthreading
Simultaneous and heterogenous
Speculative
Cooperative
Flynn's taxonomy
Array processing (SIMT)
Pipelined processing
Associative processing
performance
Transistor count
Instructions per cycle
Cycles per instruction
Instructions per second
Floating-point operations per second
Transactions per second
Synaptic updates per second
Performance per watt
Cache performance metrics
Computer performance by orders of magnitude
Central processing unit
Graphics processing unit
Tile processor
Coprocessor
Multi-chip module
System in a package
Package on a package
By application
Embedded system
Microprocessor
Microcontroller
Ultra-low-voltage
Soft microprocessor
System on a chip
Multiprocessor
Cypress PSoC
Network on a chip
accelerators
Coprocessor
AI accelerator
Graphics processing unit
Image processor
Vision processing unit
Physics processing unit
Digital signal processor
Tensor Processing Unit
Secure cryptoprocessor
Network processor
Baseband processor
bit slicing
Single-core
Heterogeneous architecture
Scratchpad memory
Instruction cache
replacement policies
Clock signal
Arithmetic logic unit
Address generation unit
Floating-point unit
Memory management unit
Load–store unit
Translation lookaside buffer
Branch predictor
Branch target predictor
Integrated memory controller
Memory management unit
Instruction decoder
Combinational
Processor register
Status register
Stack register
Register file
Memory buffer
Memory address register
Program counter
Control unit
Hardwired control unit
Instruction unit
Data buffer
Write buffer
Multiplexer
Demultiplexer
Binary decoder
Address decoder
Sum-addressed decoder
Barrel shifter
Integrated circuit
Mixed-signal
Power management
Dynamic frequency scaling
Dynamic voltage scaling
Clock gating
Performance per watt
History of general-purpose CPUs
Microprocessor chronology
Processor design
Digital electronics
Hardware security module
Semiconductor device fabrication
Tick–tock model
Pin grid array
Chip carrier
Quantum information science
DiVincenzo's criteria
Quantum computing
Quantum information
Quantum programming
Quantum simulation
physical vs. logical
Quantum processors
cloud-based
Eastin–Knill
Gottesman–Knill
No-broadcasting
No-communication
No-deleting
No-teleportation
Quantum speed limit
Solovay–Kitaev
Schrödinger-HJW
communication
Classical capacity
entanglement-assisted
quantum capacity
Entanglement distillation
Entanglement swapping
Monogamy of entanglement
Quantum channel
quantum network
State purification
Quantum teleportation
quantum energy teleportation
quantum gate teleportation
Superdense coding
Quantum cryptography
Post-quantum cryptography
Quantum coin flipping
Quantum money
Quantum key distribution
other protocols
Quantum secret sharing
Quantum algorithms
Algorithmic cooling
Amplitude amplification
Bernstein–Vazirani
Boson sampling
Deutsch–Jozsa
Hidden subgroup
Magic state distillation
Quantum annealing
Quantum counting
Quantum Fourier transform
Quantum optimization
Quantum phase estimation
complexity theory
processor benchmarks
Quantum supremacy
Quantum volume
QC scaling laws
Randomized benchmarking
Relaxation times
computing models
Adiabatic quantum computation
Continuous-variable quantum information
One-way quantum computer
cluster state
Quantum circuit
quantum logic gate
Quantum machine learning
quantum neural network
Quantum Turing machine
Topological quantum computer
Hamiltonian quantum computation
error correction
quantum convolutional
Entanglement-assisted
implementations
Quantum optics
Circuit QED
Linear optical QC
KLM protocol
Ultracold atoms
Neutral atom QC
Trapped-ion QC
Spin qubit QC
Superconducting
Charge qubit
Phase qubit
programming
Forest/Rigetti QCS
many others...
Quantum information science
Quantum mechanics topics
Emerging technologies
cellular automata
complexity theory
cryptography
post-quantum
electronics
error correction
finite automata
image processing
information
key distribution
logic clock
machine learning
metamaterial
neural network
programming
teleportation
Acoustic levitation
Anti-gravity
Cloak of invisibility
Digital scent technology
Force field
Plasma window
Immersive virtual reality
Magnetic refrigeration
Phased-array optics
Thermoacoustic heat engine
Quantum mechanics
Introduction
Classical mechanics
Old quantum theory
Fundamentals
Bra–ket notation
Complementarity
Density matrix
Energy level
Ground state
Excited state
Degenerate levels
Zero-point energy
Entanglement
Hamiltonian
Interference
Decoherence
Measurement
Nonlocality
Quantum state
quantum jump
Superposition
Scattering theory
Symmetry in quantum mechanics
Uncertainty
Wave function
Wave–particle duality
Formulations
Formulations
Interaction
Matrix mechanics
Schrödinger
Path integral formulation
Phase space
Klein–Gordon
Rarita–Schwinger
Schrödinger
Interpretations
Consciousness causes collapse
Consistent histories
de Broglie–Bohm
Hidden-variable
Superdeterminism
Many-worlds
Objective collapse
Quantum logic
Transactional
Experiments
Davisson–Germer
Delayed-choice quantum eraser
Double-slit
Franck–Hertz
Mach–Zehnder interferometer
Elitzur–Vaidman
Quantum eraser
Stern–Gerlach
Wheeler's delayed choice
Quantum biology
Quantum chemistry
Quantum chaos
Quantum cosmology
Quantum differential calculus
Quantum dynamics
Quantum geometry
Quantum measurement problem
Quantum mind
Quantum stochastic calculus
Quantum spacetime
Quantum algorithms
Quantum amplifier
Quantum bus
Quantum cellular automata
Quantum finite automata
Quantum channel
Quantum circuit
Quantum complexity theory
Quantum computing
Quantum cryptography
Quantum electronics
Quantum error correction
Quantum imaging
Quantum image processing
Quantum information
Quantum key distribution
Quantum logic
Quantum logic gates
Quantum machine
Quantum machine learning
Quantum metamaterial
Quantum metrology
Quantum network
Quantum neural network
Quantum optics
Quantum programming
Quantum sensing
Quantum simulator
Quantum teleportation
Quantum fluctuation
Casimir effect
Quantum statistical mechanics
Quantum field theory
Quantum gravity
Relativistic quantum mechanics
Schrödinger's cat
in popular culture
Wigner's friend
EPR paradox
Quantum mysticism
Authority control databases
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Quantum_computing&oldid=1335904806
Quantum computing
Models of computation
Quantum cryptography
Information theory
Computational complexity theory
Classes of computers
Theoretical computer science
Open problems
Computer-related introductions in 1980
Supercomputers
Hidden categories:
CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)
CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown
All articles with dead external links
Articles with dead external links from November 2025
Articles with short description
Short description is different from Wikidata
Use American English from February 2023
All Wikipedia articles written in American English
Use dmy dates from February 2021
Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2023
All articles containing potentially dated statements
Commons category link is on Wikidata
Commons link is locally defined
Webarchive template wayback links