# Robotics - Wikipedia
# Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Design, construction, use, and application of robots
This article
may relate to
a different subject
undue weight
on an aspect of the subject.
Specifically, the article goes in too much detail on specific types of
and includes
product placement
Please help
relocate relevant information
and remove irrelevant content.
August 2024
interdisciplinary
study and practice of the design,
construction
, operation, and use of
mechanical engineering
, robotics is the design and construction of the physical structures of robots, while in
computer science
, robotics focuses on robotic automation algorithms. Other disciplines contributing to robotics include
information
telecommunication
mechatronic
engineering.
The goal of most robotics is to design machines that can help and assist
. Many robots are built to do jobs that are hazardous to people, such as finding survivors in unstable ruins, and exploring space, mines and shipwrecks. Others replace people in jobs that are boring, repetitive, or unpleasant, such as cleaning, monitoring, transporting, and assembling. Today, robotics is a rapidly growing field, as technological advances continue; researching, designing, and building new robots serve various practical purposes.
is someone who specializes in robotics.
Robotics aspects
Robotics usually combines three aspects of design work to create
Mechanical construction: a frame, form or shape designed to achieve a particular task. For example, a robot designed to travel across heavy dirt or mud might use caterpillar tracks. Origami inspired robots can sense and analyze in extreme environments.
The mechanical aspect of the robot is mostly the creator's solution to completing the assigned task and dealing with the physics of the environment around it. Form follows function.
Electrical components that power and control the machinery. For example, the robot with
caterpillar tracks
would need some kind of power to move the tracker treads. That power comes in the form of electricity, which will have to travel through a wire and originate from a battery, a basic
electrical circuit
. Even petrol-powered
that get their power mainly from petrol still require an electric current to start the combustion process which is why most petrol-powered machines like cars, have batteries. The electrical aspect of robots is used for movement (through motors), sensing (where electrical signals are used to measure things like heat, sound, position, and energy status), and operation (robots need some level of
electrical energy
supplied to their motors and sensors in order to activate and perform basic operations)
. A program is how a robot decides when or how to do something. In the caterpillar track example, a robot that needs to move across a muddy road may have the correct mechanical construction and receive the correct amount of power from its battery, but would not be able to go anywhere without a program telling it to move. Programs are the core essence of a robot, it could have excellent mechanical and electrical construction, but if its program is poorly structured, its performance will be very poor (or it may not perform at all). There are three different types of robotic programs: remote control, artificial intelligence, and hybrid. A robot with
remote control
programming has a preexisting set of commands that it will only perform if and when it receives a signal from a control source, typically a human being with remote control. It is perhaps more appropriate to view devices controlled primarily by human commands as falling in the discipline of automation rather than robotics. Robots that use
artificial intelligence
interact with their environment on their own without a control source, and can determine reactions to objects and problems they encounter using their preexisting programming. A hybrid is a form of programming that incorporates both AI and RC functions in them.
Applied robotics
As many robots are designed for specific tasks, this method of classification becomes more relevant. For example, many robots are designed for assembly work, which may not be readily adaptable for other applications. They are termed "assembly robots". For seam welding, some suppliers provide complete welding systems with the robot i.e. the welding equipment along with other material handling facilities like turntables, etc. as an integrated unit. Such an integrated robotic system is called a "welding robot" even though its discrete manipulator unit could be adapted to a variety of tasks. Some robots are specifically designed for heavy load manipulation, and are labeled as "heavy-duty robots".
Current and potential applications include:
Manufacturing
. Robots have been increasingly used in manufacturing since the 1960s. According to the
Robotic Industries Association
US data, in 2016 the automotive industry was the main customer of industrial robots with 52% of total sales.
In the auto industry, they can amount for more than half of the "labor". There are even "
" factories such as an IBM keyboard manufacturing factory in Texas that was fully automated as early as 2003.
Autonomous transport
including airplane
self-driving cars
Domestic robots
robotic vacuum cleaners
robotic lawn mowers
, dishwasher loading
flatbread baking
Construction robots
. Construction robots can be separated into three types: traditional robots,
robotic arm
robotic exoskeleton
Automated mining
Space exploration, including
Mars rovers
Energy applications including cleanup of nuclear contaminated areas;
and cleaning solar panel arrays.
Medical robots
Robot-assisted surgery
designed and used in clinics.
Agricultural robots
The use of robots in agriculture is closely linked to the concept of
precision agriculture
Food processing. Commercial examples of kitchen automation are Flippy (burgers), Zume Pizza (pizza), Cafe X (coffee), Makr Shakr (cocktails), Frobot (frozen yogurts), Sally (salads),
salad or food bowl robots manufactured by Dexai (a
Draper Laboratory
spinoff, operating on military bases), and integrated food bowl assembly systems manufactured by
Spyce Kitchen
(acquired by
Silicon Valley
startup Hyphen.
Other examples may include manufacturing technologies based on
3D Food Printing
Military robots
Robot sports for entertainment and education, including
Robot combat
Autonomous racing
drone racing
FIRST Robotics
Mechanical robotics areas
Power source
Further information:
Power supply
Energy storage
At present, mostly (lead–acid)
are used as a power source. Many different types of batteries can be used as a power source for robots. They range from lead–acid batteries, which are safe and have relatively long shelf lives but are rather heavy compared to silver–cadmium batteries which are much smaller in volume and are currently much more expensive. Designing a battery-powered robot needs to take into account factors such as safety, cycle lifetime, and
. Generators, often some type of
internal combustion engine
, can also be used. However, such designs are often mechanically complex and need fuel, require heat dissipation, and are relatively heavy. A tether connecting the robot to a power supply would remove the power supply from the robot entirely. This has the advantage of saving weight and space by moving all power generation and storage components elsewhere. However, this design does come with the drawback of constantly having a cable connected to the robot, which can be difficult to manage.
Potential power sources could be:
(compressed gases)
Solar power
(using the sun's energy and converting it into electrical power)
flywheel energy storage
organic garbage (through
anaerobic digestion
Main article:
Actuators are the "
" of a robot, the parts which convert
stored energy
into movement.
By far the most popular actuators are electric motors that rotate a wheel or gear, and linear actuators that control industrial robots in factories. There are some recent advances in alternative types of actuators, powered by electricity, chemicals, or compressed air.
Electric motors
Main article:
Electric motor
The vast majority of robots use
electric motors
brushless DC motors
in portable robots or AC motors in industrial robots and
machines. These motors are often preferred in systems with lighter loads, and where the predominant form of motion is rotational.
Linear actuators
Main article:
Linear actuator
Various types of linear actuators move in and out instead of by spinning, and often have quicker direction changes, particularly when very large forces are needed such as with industrial robotics. They are typically powered by compressed air (
pneumatic actuator
) or an oil (
hydraulic actuator
) Linear actuators can also be powered by electricity which usually consists of a motor and a leadscrew. Another common type is a mechanical linear actuator such as a rack and pinion on a car.
Series elastic actuators
Series elastic actuation (SEA) relies on the idea of introducing intentional elasticity between the motor actuator and the load for robust force control. Due to the resultant lower reflected inertia, series elastic actuation improves safety when a robot interacts with the environment (e.g., humans or workpieces) or during collisions.
Furthermore, it also provides
energy efficiency
and shock absorption (mechanical filtering) while reducing excessive wear on the transmission and other mechanical components. This approach has successfully been employed in various robots, particularly advanced manufacturing robots
and walking
The controller design of a series elastic actuator is most often performed within the
framework as it ensures the safety of interaction with unstructured environments.
Despite its remarkable stability and robustness, this framework suffers from the stringent limitations imposed on the controller which may trade-off performance. The reader is referred to the following survey which summarizes the common controller architectures for SEA along with the corresponding
passivity conditions.
One recent study has derived the
necessary and sufficient
passivity conditions for one of the most common
impedance control
architectures, namely velocity-sourced SEA.
This work is of particular importance as it drives the non-conservative passivity bounds in an SEA scheme for the first time which allows a larger selection of control gains.
Air muscles
Main article:
Pneumatic artificial muscles
Pneumatic artificial muscles also known as air muscles, are special tubes that expand (typically up to 42%) when air is forced inside them. They are used in some robot applications.
Wire muscles
Main article:
Shape memory alloy
Muscle wire, also known as shape memory alloy, is a material that contracts (under 5%) when electricity is applied. They have been used for some small robot applications.
Electroactive polymers
Main article:
Electroactive polymers
EAPs or EPAMs are a plastic material that can contract substantially (up to 380% activation strain) from electricity, and have been used in facial muscles and arms of humanoid robots,
and to enable new robots to float,
fly, swim or walk.
Piezo motors
Main article:
Piezoelectric motor
Recent alternatives to DC motors are
piezo motors
ultrasonic motors
. These work on a fundamentally different principle, whereby tiny
piezoceramic
elements, vibrating many thousands of times per second, cause linear or rotary motion. There are different mechanisms of operation; one type uses the vibration of the piezo elements to step the motor in a circle or a straight line.
Another type uses the piezo elements to cause a nut to vibrate or to drive a screw. The advantages of these motors are
resolution, speed, and available force for their size.
These motors are already available commercially and being used on some robots.
Elastic nanotubes
Further information:
Carbon nanotube
Elastic nanotubes are a promising artificial muscle technology in early-stage experimental development. The absence of defects in
carbon nanotubes
enables these filaments to deform elastically by several percent, with energy storage levels of perhaps 10
for metal nanotubes. Human biceps could be replaced with an 8 mm diameter wire of this material. Such compact "muscle" might allow future robots to outrun and outjump humans.
Main articles:
Robotic sensing
Robotic sensors
Sensors allow robots to receive information about a certain measurement of the environment, or internal components. This is essential for robots to perform their tasks, and act upon any changes in the environment to calculate the appropriate response. They are used for various forms of measurements, to give the robots warnings about safety or malfunctions, and to provide real-time information about the task it is performing.
Main article:
Tactile sensor
prosthetic hands
receive far less
information than the human hand. Recent research has developed a tactile
sensor array
that mimics the mechanical properties and touch receptors of human fingertips.
The sensor array is constructed as a rigid core surrounded by conductive fluid contained by an elastomeric skin. Electrodes are mounted on the surface of the rigid core and are connected to an impedance-measuring device within the core. When the artificial skin touches an object the fluid path around the electrodes is deformed, producing impedance changes that map the forces received from the object. The researchers expect that an important function of such artificial fingertips will be adjusting the robotic grip on held objects.
Scientists from several
European countries
developed a
hand in 2009, called SmartHand, which functions like a real one —allowing patients to write with it, type on a
, play piano, and perform other fine movements. The prosthesis has sensors which enable the patient to sense real feelings in its fingertips.
Further information:
Sensory-motor map
Other common forms of sensing in robotics use lidar, radar, and sonar.
measures the distance to a target by illuminating the target with laser light and measuring the reflected light with a sensor.
uses radio waves to determine the range, angle, or velocity of objects.
uses sound propagation to navigate, communicate with or detect objects on or under the surface of the water.
Mechanical grippers
One of the most common types of end-effectors are "grippers". In its simplest manifestation, it consists of just two fingers that can open and close to pick up and let go of a range of small objects. Fingers can, for example, be made of a chain with a metal wire running through it.
Hands that resemble and work more like a human hand include the
Shadow Hand
Hands that are of a mid-level complexity include the
Mechanical grippers can come in various types, including friction and encompassing jaws. Friction jaws use all the force of the gripper to hold the object in place using friction. Encompassing jaws cradle the object in place, using less friction.
Suction end-effectors
Suction end-effectors, powered by vacuum generators, are very simple astrictive
devices that can hold very large loads provided the
surface is smooth enough to ensure suction.
Pick and place robots for electronic components and for large objects like car windscreens, often use very simple vacuum end-effectors.
Suction is a highly used type of end-effector in industry, in part because the natural
of soft suction end-effectors can enable a robot to be more robust in the presence of imperfect robotic perception. As an example: consider the case of a robot vision system that estimates the position of a water bottle but has 1 centimeter of error. While this may cause a rigid mechanical gripper to puncture the water bottle, the soft suction end-effector may just bend slightly and conform to the shape of the water bottle surface.
General purpose effectors
Some advanced robots are beginning to use fully humanoid hands, like the Shadow Hand, MANUS,
and the Schunk hand.
They have powerful Robot Dexterity Intelligence (RDI), with as many as 20
degrees of freedom
and hundreds of tactile sensors.
Control robotics areas
Further information:
Control system
Principles of motion sensing
The mechanical structure of a robot must be controlled to perform tasks.
The control of a robot involves three distinct phases –
, processing, and action (
robotic paradigms
give information about the environment or the robot itself (e.g. the position of its joints or its end effector). This information is then processed to be stored or transmitted and to calculate the appropriate signals to the actuators (
), which move the mechanical structure to achieve the required co-ordinated motion or force actions.
The processing phase can range in complexity. At a reactive level, it may translate raw sensor information directly into actuator commands (e.g. firing motor power electronic gates based directly upon encoder feedback signals to achieve the required torque/velocity of the shaft).
Sensor fusion
and internal models may first be used to estimate parameters of interest (e.g. the position of the robot's gripper) from noisy sensor data. An immediate task (such as moving the gripper in a certain direction until an object is detected with a proximity sensor) is sometimes inferred from these estimates. Techniques from
control theory
are generally used to convert the higher-level tasks into individual commands that drive the actuators, most often using kinematic and dynamic models of the mechanical structure.
At longer time scales or with more sophisticated tasks, the robot may need to build and reason with a "cognitive" model.
Cognitive models
try to represent the robot, the world, and how the two interact. Pattern recognition and computer vision can be used to track objects.
techniques can be used to build maps of the world. Finally,
motion planning
artificial intelligence
techniques may be used to figure out how to act. For example, a planner may figure out how to achieve a task without hitting obstacles, falling over, etc.
Modern commercial robotic control systems are highly complex, integrate multiple sensors and effectors, have many interacting degrees-of-freedom (DOF) and require operator interfaces, programming tools and real-time capabilities.
They are oftentimes interconnected to wider communication networks and in many cases are now both
-enabled and mobile.
Progress towards open architecture, layered, user-friendly and 'intelligent' sensor-based interconnected robots has emerged from earlier concepts related to
Flexible Manufacturing Systems
(FMS), and several 'open or 'hybrid'
reference architectures
exist which assist developers of robot control software and hardware to move beyond traditional, earlier notions of 'closed' robot control systems have been proposed.
Open architecture controllers are said to be better able to meet the growing requirements of a wide range of robot users, including system developers, end users and research scientists, and are better positioned to deliver the advanced robotic concepts related to
Industry 4.0
In addition to utilizing many established features of robot controllers, such as position, velocity and force control of end effectors, they also enable IoT interconnection and the implementation of more advanced sensor fusion and control techniques, including adaptive control,
Fuzzy control
Artificial Neural Network
(ANN)-based control.
When implemented in real-time, such techniques can potentially improve the stability and performance of robots operating in unknown or uncertain environments by enabling the control systems to learn and adapt to environmental changes.
There are several examples of reference architectures for robot controllers, and also examples of successful implementations of actual robot controllers developed from them. One example of a generic reference architecture and associated interconnected, open-architecture robot and controller implementation was used in a number of research and development studies, including prototype implementation of novel advanced and intelligent control and environment mapping methods in real-time.
Manipulation
Further information:
Mobile manipulator
A definition of robotic manipulation has been provided by Matt Mason as: "manipulation refers to an agent's control of its environment through selective contact".
Robots need to manipulate objects; pick up, modify, destroy, move or otherwise have an effect. Thus the functional end of a robot arm intended to make the effect (whether a hand, or tool) are often referred to as
end effectors
while the "arm" is referred to as a
manipulator
Most robot arms have replaceable end-effectors, each allowing them to perform some small range of tasks. Some have a fixed manipulator that cannot be replaced, while a few have one very general-purpose manipulator, for example, a humanoid hand.
Main articles:
Robot locomotion
Mobile robot
Rolling robots
For simplicity, most mobile robots have four
or a number of
continuous tracks
. Some researchers have tried to create more complex wheeled robots with only one or two wheels. These can have certain advantages such as greater efficiency and reduced parts, as well as allowing a robot to navigate in confined places that a four-wheeled robot would not be able to.
Two-wheeled balancing robots
Balancing robots generally use a
to detect how much a robot is falling and then drive the wheels proportionally in the same direction, to counterbalance the fall at hundreds of times per second, based on the dynamics of an
inverted pendulum
Many different balancing robots have been designed.
is not commonly thought of as a robot, it can be thought of as a component of a robot, when used as such Segway refer to them as RMP (Robotic Mobility Platform). An example of this use has been as
that has been mounted on a Segway.
One-wheeled balancing robots
Main article:
Self-balancing unicycle
A one-wheeled balancing robot is an extension of a two-wheeled balancing robot so that it can move in any 2D direction using a round ball as its only wheel. Several one-wheeled balancing robots have been designed recently, such as
Carnegie Mellon University
" which is the approximate height and width of a person, and
Tohoku Gakuin University
's "BallIP".
Because of the long, thin shape and ability to maneuver in tight spaces, they have the potential to function better than other robots in environments with people.
Spherical orb robots
Main article:
Spherical robot
Several attempts have been made in robots that are completely inside a spherical ball, either by spinning a weight inside the ball,
or by rotating the outer shells of the sphere.
These have also been referred to as an
or a ball bot.
Six-wheeled robots
Using six wheels instead of four wheels can give better traction or grip in outdoor terrain such as on rocky dirt or grass.
Tracked robots
Tracks provide even more traction than a six-wheeled robot. Tracked wheels behave as if they were made of hundreds of wheels, therefore are very common for outdoor off-road robots, where the robot must drive on very rough terrain. However, they are difficult to use indoors such as on carpets and smooth floors. Examples include NASA's Urban Robot "Urbie".
Walking robots
Further information:
Mantis the spider robot
Walking is a difficult and dynamic problem to solve. Several robots have been made which can walk reliably on two legs, however, none have yet been made which are as robust as a human. There has been much study on human-inspired walking, such as AMBER lab which was established in 2008 by the Mechanical Engineering Department at Texas A&M University.
Many other robots have been built that walk on more than two legs, due to these robots being significantly easier to construct.
Walking robots can be used for uneven terrains, which would provide better mobility and energy efficiency than other locomotion methods. Typically, robots on two legs can walk well on flat floors and can occasionally walk up
. None can walk over rocky, uneven terrain. Some of the methods which have been tried are:
ZMP technique
Main article:
Zero moment point
The zero moment point (ZMP) is the algorithm used by robots such as
. The robot's onboard computer tries to keep the total
inertial forces
(the combination of
acceleration
and deceleration of walking), exactly opposed by the floor
reaction force
(the force of the floor pushing back on the robot's foot). In this way, the two forces cancel out, leaving no
(force causing the robot to rotate and fall over).
However, this is not exactly how a human walks, and the difference is obvious to human observers, some of whom have pointed out that ASIMO walks as if it needs the
ASIMO's walking algorithm is not static, and some dynamic balancing is used (see below). However, it still requires a smooth surface to walk on.
Several robots, built in the 1980s by
Marc Raibert
Leg Laboratory, successfully demonstrated very dynamic walking. Initially, a robot with only one leg, and a very small foot could stay upright simply by
. The movement is the same as that of a person on a
. As the robot falls to one side, it would jump slightly in that direction, in order to catch itself.
Soon, the algorithm was generalized to two and four legs. A bipedal robot was demonstrated running and even performing
somersaults
was also demonstrated which could
, and bound.
For a full list of these robots, see the MIT Leg Lab Robots page.
Dynamic balancing (controlled falling)
A more advanced way for a robot to walk is by using a dynamic balancing algorithm, which is potentially more robust than the Zero Moment Point technique, as it constantly monitors the robot's motion, and places the feet in order to maintain stability.
This technique was recently demonstrated by
Dexter Robot,
which is so stable, it can even jump.
Another example is the
TU Delft Flame
Passive dynamics
Main article:
Passive dynamics
Perhaps the most promising approach uses
passive dynamics
of swinging limbs is used for greater
. It has been shown that totally unpowered humanoid mechanisms can walk down a gentle slope, using only
to propel themselves. Using this technique, a robot need only supply a small amount of motor power to walk along a flat surface or a little more to walk up a
. This technique promises to make walking robots at least ten times more efficient than ZMP walkers, like ASIMO.
passenger airliner
is essentially a
robot, with two humans to manage it. The
can control the plane for each stage of the journey, including takeoff, normal flight, and even landing.
Other flying robots are uninhabited and are known as
unmanned aerial vehicles
(UAVs). They can be smaller and lighter without a human pilot on board, and fly into dangerous territory for military surveillance missions. Some can even fire on targets under command. UAVs are also being developed which can fire on targets automatically, without the need for a command from a human. Other flying robots include
cruise missiles
Epson micro helicopter robot
. Robots such as the Air Penguin, Air Ray, and Air Jelly have lighter-than-air bodies, are propelled by paddles, and are guided by sonar.
Biomimetic flying robots (BFRs)
BFRs take inspiration from flying mammals, birds, or insects. BFRs can have flapping wings, which generate the lift and thrust, or they can be propeller-actuated. BFRs with flapping wings have increased stroke efficiencies, increased maneuverability, and reduced energy consumption in comparison to propeller-actuated BFRs.
Mammal and bird inspired BFRs share similar flight characteristics and design considerations. For instance, both mammal and bird inspired BFRs minimize
edge fluttering
pressure-induced wingtip curl
by increasing the rigidity of the wing edge and wingtips. Mammal and insect inspired BFRs can be impact resistant, making them useful in cluttered environments.
Mammal inspired BFRs typically take inspiration from bats, but the flying squirrel has also inspired a prototype.
Examples of bat inspired BFRs include Bat Bot
and the DALER.
Mammal inspired BFRs can be designed to be multi-modal; therefore, they're capable of both flight and terrestrial movement. To reduce the impact of landing, shock absorbers can be implemented along the wings.
Alternatively, the BFR can pitch up and increase the amount of drag it experiences.
By increasing the drag force, the BFR will decelerate and minimize the impact upon grounding. Different land gait patterns can also be implemented.
Bird inspired BFRs can take inspiration from raptors, gulls, and everything in-between. Bird inspired BFRs can be feathered to increase the angle of attack range over which the prototype can operate before stalling.
The wings of bird inspired BFRs allow for in-plane deformation, and the in-plane wing deformation can be adjusted to maximize flight efficiency depending on the flight gait.
An example of a raptor inspired BFR is the prototype by Savastano et al.
The prototype has fully deformable flapping wings and is capable of carrying a payload of up to 0.8 kg while performing a parabolic climb, steep descent, and rapid recovery. The gull inspired prototype by Grant et al. accurately mimics the elbow and wrist rotation of gulls, and they find that lift generation is maximized when the elbow and wrist deformations are opposite but equal.
Insect inspired BFRs typically take inspiration from beetles or dragonflies. An example of a beetle inspired BFR is the prototype by Phan and Park,
and a dragonfly inspired BFR is the prototype by Hu et al.
The flapping frequency of insect inspired BFRs are much higher than those of other BFRs; this is because of the
aerodynamics of insect flight
Insect inspired BFRs are much smaller than those inspired by mammals or birds, so they are more suitable for dense environments.
Biologically-inspired flying robots
A class of robots that are biologically inspired, but which do not attempt to mimic biology, are creations such as the
. Funded by
United States Air Force
Georgia Tech Research Institute
and patented by Prof.
Robert C. Michelson
for covert terrestrial missions as well as flight in the lower
atmosphere, the Entomopter flight propulsion system uses low
Reynolds number
wings similar to those of the
(Manduca sexta), but flaps them in a non-traditional "opposed x-wing fashion" while "blowing" the surface to enhance lift based on the
Coandă effect
as well as to control vehicle attitude and direction. Waste gas from the propulsion system not only facilitates the blown wing aerodynamics, but also serves to create ultrasonic emissions like that of a
for obstacle avoidance. The Entomopter and other biologically-inspired robots leverage features of biological systems, but do not attempt to create mechanical analogs.
robots have been successfully developed. Mimicking the way real snakes move, these robots can navigate very confined spaces, meaning they may one day be used to search for people trapped in collapsed buildings.
The Japanese ACM-R5 snake robot
can even navigate both on land and in water.
A small number of
robots have been developed, one of which is a multi-mode walking and skating device. It has four legs, with unpowered wheels, which can either step or roll.
Another robot, Plen, can use a miniature skateboard or roller-skates, and skate across a desktop.
Several different approaches have been used to develop robots that have the ability to climb vertical surfaces. One approach mimics the movements of a human
on a wall with protrusions; adjusting the
center of mass
and moving each limb in turn to gain leverage. An example of this is Capuchin,
built by Ruixiang Zhang at Stanford University, California. Another approach uses the specialized toe pad method of wall-climbing
, which can run on smooth surfaces such as vertical glass. Examples of this approach include Wallbot
and Stickybot.
Technology Daily
reported on 15 November 2008, that Li Hiu Yeung and his research group of New Concept Aircraft (
) Co., Ltd. had successfully developed a bionic gecko robot named "
Speedy Freelander
". According to Yeung, the gecko robot could rapidly climb up and down a variety of building walls, navigate through ground and wall fissures, and walk upside-down on the ceiling. It was also able to adapt to the surfaces of smooth glass, rough, sticky or dusty walls as well as various types of metallic materials. It could also identify and circumvent obstacles automatically. Its flexibility and speed were comparable to a natural gecko. A third approach is to mimic the motion of a snake climbing a pole.
Swimming (Piscine)
It is calculated that when
some fish can achieve a
efficiency greater than 90%.
Furthermore, they can accelerate and maneuver far better than any man-made
, and produce less noise and water disturbance. Therefore, many researchers studying underwater robots would like to copy this type of locomotion.
Notable examples are the Robotic Fish G9,
and Robot Tuna built to analyze and mathematically model
thunniform motion
The Aqua Penguin,
copies the streamlined shape and propulsion by front "flippers" of
. The Aqua Ray and Aqua Jelly emulate the locomotion of manta ray, and jellyfish, respectively.
-II was developed as the first
robotic fish
capable of outperforming real carangiform fish in terms of average maximum velocity (measured in body lengths/ second) and endurance, the duration that top speed is maintained.
This build attained swimming speeds of 11.6BL/s (i.e. 3.7 m/s).
The first build,
-I (2014) was the first robotic platform to apply a full-body length
carangiform
swimming motion which was found to increase swimming speed by 27% over the traditional approach of a posterior confined waveform.
Sailboat robots have also been developed in order to make measurements at the surface of the ocean. A typical sailboat robot is
Since the propulsion of sailboat robots uses the wind, the energy of the batteries is only used for the computer, for the communication and for the actuators (to tune the rudder and the sail). If the robot is equipped with solar panels, the robot could theoretically navigate forever. The two main competitions of sailboat robots are
, which takes place every year in Europe, and
Computational robotics areas
Control systems may also have varying levels of autonomy.
Direct interaction is used for
or teleoperated devices, and the human has nearly complete control over the robot's motion.
Operator-assist modes have the operator commanding medium-to-high-level tasks, with the robot automatically figuring out how to achieve them.
An autonomous robot may go without human interaction for extended periods of time . Higher levels of autonomy do not necessarily require more complex cognitive capabilities. For example, robots in assembly plants are completely autonomous but operate in a fixed pattern.
Another classification takes into account the interaction between human control and the machine motions.
Teleoperation
. A human controls each movement, each machine actuator change is specified by the operator.
Supervisory. A human specifies general moves or position changes and the machine decides specific movements of its actuators.
Task-level autonomy. The operator specifies only the task and the robot manages itself to complete it.
Full autonomy. The machine will create and complete all its tasks without human interaction.
Main article:
Computer vision
Computer vision
is the science and technology of machines that see. As a scientific discipline, computer vision is concerned with the theory behind artificial systems that extract information from images. The image data can take many forms, such as video sequences and views from cameras.
In most practical computer vision applications, the computers are pre-programmed to solve a particular task, but methods based on learning are now becoming increasingly common.
Computer vision systems rely on image sensors that detect electromagnetic radiation which is typically in the form of either
visible light
infra-red light
. The sensors are designed using
solid-state physics
. The process by which light propagates and reflects off surfaces is explained using
. Sophisticated image sensors even require
quantum mechanics
to provide a complete understanding of the image formation process. Robots can also be equipped with multiple vision sensors to be better able to compute the sense of depth in the environment. Like human eyes, robots' "eyes" must also be able to focus on a particular area of interest, and also adjust to variations in light intensities.
There is a subfield within computer vision where artificial systems are designed to mimic the processing and behavior of
biological system
, at different levels of complexity. Also, some of the learning-based methods developed within computer vision have a background in biology.
Environmental interaction and navigation
Main articles:
Robotic mapping
Robotic navigation
Though a significant percentage of robots in commission today are either human controlled or operate in a static environment, there is an increasing interest in robots that can operate autonomously in a dynamic environment. These robots require some combination of
navigation hardware and software
in order to traverse their environment. In particular, unforeseen events (e.g. people and other obstacles that are not stationary) can cause problems or collisions. Some highly advanced robots such as
Meinü robot
have particularly good robot navigation hardware and software. Also,
self-controlled cars
Ernst Dickmanns
driverless car
, and the entries in the
DARPA Grand Challenge
, are capable of sensing the environment well and subsequently making navigational decisions based on this information, including by a swarm of autonomous robots.
Most of these robots employ a
navigation device with waypoints, along with
, sometimes combined with other sensory data such as
video cameras
inertial guidance systems
for better navigation between waypoints.
Human-robot interaction
Main article:
Human-robot interaction
The state of the art in sensory intelligence for robots will have to progress through several orders of magnitude if we want the robots working in our homes to go beyond vacuum-cleaning the floors. If robots are to work effectively in homes and other non-industrial environments, the way they are instructed to perform their jobs, and especially how they will be told to stop will be of critical importance. The people who interact with them may have little or no training in robotics, and so any interface will need to be extremely intuitive. Science fiction authors also typically assume that robots will eventually be capable of communicating with humans through
facial expressions
, rather than a
command-line interface
. Although speech would be the most natural way for the human to communicate, it is unnatural for the robot. It will probably be a long time before robots interact as naturally as the fictional
Data of Star Trek, Next Generation
. Even though the current state of robotics cannot meet the standards of these robots from science-fiction, robotic media characters (e.g., Wall-E, R2-D2) can elicit audience sympathies that increase people's willingness to accept actual robots in the future.
Acceptance of social robots is also likely to increase if people can meet a social robot under appropriate conditions. Studies have shown that interacting with a robot by looking at, touching, or even imagining interacting with the robot can reduce negative feelings that some people have about robots before interacting with them.
However, if pre-existing negative sentiments are especially strong, interacting with a robot can increase those negative feelings towards robots.
Speech recognition
Main article:
Speech recognition
Interpreting the continuous flow of
coming from a human, in
, is a difficult task for a computer, mostly because of the great variability of
The same word, spoken by the same person may sound different depending on local
, the previous word, whether or not the speaker has a
, etc.. It becomes even harder when the speaker has a different
Nevertheless, great strides have been made in the field since Davis, Biddulph, and Balashek designed the first "voice input system" which recognized "ten digits spoken by a single user with 100% accuracy" in 1952.
Currently, the best systems can recognize continuous, natural speech, up to 160 words per minute, with an accuracy of 95%.
With the help of artificial intelligence, machines nowadays can use people's voice to
identify their emotions
such as satisfied or angry.
Robotic voice
Other hurdles exist when allowing the robot to use voice for interacting with humans. For social reasons,
synthetic voice
proves suboptimal as a communication medium,
making it necessary to develop the emotional component of robotic voice through various techniques.
An advantage of diphonic branching is the emotion that the robot is programmed to project, can be carried on the voice tape, or phoneme, already pre-programmed onto the voice media. One of the earliest examples is a teaching robot named Leachim developed in 1974 by
Michael J. Freeman
Leachim was able to convert digital memory to rudimentary verbal speech on pre-recorded computer discs.
It was programmed to teach students in
The Bronx, New York
Facial expression
Further information:
Emotion recognition
Facial expressions can provide rapid feedback on the progress of a dialog between two humans, and soon may be able to do the same for humans and robots. Robotic faces have been constructed by
Hanson Robotics
using their elastic polymer called
, allowing a large number of facial expressions due to the elasticity of the rubber facial coating and embedded subsurface motors (
The coating and servos are built on a metal
. A robot should know how to approach a human, judging by their facial expression and
body language
. Whether the person is happy, frightened, or crazy-looking affects the type of interaction expected of the robot. Likewise, robots like
and the more recent addition, Nexi
can produce a range of facial expressions, allowing it to have meaningful social exchanges with humans.
Further information:
Gesture recognition
One can imagine, in the future, explaining to a robot chef how to make a pastry, or asking directions from a robot police officer. In both of these cases, making hand
would aid the verbal descriptions. In the first case, the robot would be recognizing gestures made by the human, and perhaps repeating them for confirmation. In the second case, the robot police officer would gesture to indicate "down the road, then turn right". It is likely that gestures will make up a part of the interaction between humans and robots.
A great many systems have been developed to recognize human hand gestures.
is the study of personal space, and HRI systems may try to model and work with its concepts for human interactions.
Artificial emotions
Artificial emotions
can also be generated, composed of a sequence of facial expressions or gestures. As can be seen from the movie
Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within
, the programming of these artificial emotions is complex and requires a large amount of human observation. To simplify this programming in the movie, presets were created together with a special software program. This decreased the amount of time needed to make the film. These presets could possibly be transferred for use in real-life robots. An example of a robot with artificial emotions is
Robin the Robot
developed by an
IT company Expper Technologies, which uses AI-based peer-to-peer interaction. Its main task is achieving emotional well-being, i.e. overcome stress and anxiety. Robin was trained to analyze facial expressions and use his face to display his emotions given the context. The robot has been tested by kids in US clinics, and observations show that Robin increased the appetite and cheerfulness of children after meeting and talking.
Personality
Many of the robots of science fiction have a
personality
, something which may or may not be desirable in the commercial robots of the future.
Nevertheless, researchers are trying to create robots which appear to have a personality:
i.e. they use sounds, facial expressions, and body language to try to convey an internal state, which may be joy, sadness, or fear. One commercial example is
, a toy robot dinosaur, which can exhibit several apparent emotions.
Research robotics
Further information:
Areas of robotics
Much of the research in robotics focuses not on specific industrial tasks, but on investigations into new
types of robots
, alternative ways to think about or design robots, and new ways to manufacture them. Other investigations, such as MIT's
project, are almost wholly academic.
To describe the level of advancement of a robot, the term "Generation Robots" can be used. This term is coined by Professor
Hans Moravec
, Principal Research Scientist at the
Carnegie Mellon University
Robotics Institute
in describing the near future evolution of robot technology.
First-generation
robots, Moravec predicted in 1997, should have an intellectual capacity comparable to perhaps a
and should become available by 2010. Because the
first generation
robot would be incapable of
, however, Moravec predicts that the
second generation
robot would be an improvement over the
and become available by 2020, with the intelligence maybe comparable to that of a
third generation
robot should have intelligence comparable to that of a
fourth generation
robots, robots with
intelligence, professor Moravec predicts, would become possible, he does not predict this happening before around 2040 or 2050.
Dynamics and kinematics
Main article:
Robot kinematics
Further information:
Dynamics (mechanics)
External videos
How the BB-8 Sphero Toy Works
The study of motion can be divided into
Direct kinematics or forward kinematics refers to the calculation of end effector position, orientation,
acceleration
when the corresponding joint values are known.
Inverse kinematics
refers to the opposite case in which required joint values are calculated for given end effector values, as done in path planning. Some special aspects of kinematics include handling of redundancy (different possibilities of performing the same movement),
avoidance, and
singularity
avoidance. Once all relevant positions, velocities, and accelerations have been calculated using
, methods from the field of
are used to study the effect of
upon these movements. Direct dynamics refers to the calculation of accelerations in the robot once the applied forces are known. Direct dynamics is used in
computer simulations
of the robot.
Inverse dynamics
refers to the calculation of the actuator forces necessary to create a prescribed end-effector acceleration. This information can be used to improve the control algorithms of a robot.
In each area mentioned above, researchers strive to develop new concepts and strategies, improve existing ones, and improve the interaction between these areas. To do this, criteria for "optimal" performance and ways to optimize design, structure, and control of robots must be developed and implemented.
Open source robotics
Further information:
Open source robotics
List of open-source robotics hardware
List of open-source robotics software
Open source robotics
research seeks standards for defining, and methods for designing and building, robots so that they can easily be reproduced by anyone. Research includes legal and technical definitions; seeking out alternative tools and materials to reduce costs and simplify builds; and creating interfaces and standards for designs to work together. Human usability research also investigates how to best document builds through visual, text or video instructions.
Evolutionary robotics
Evolutionary robots
methodology
evolutionary computation
to help design robots, especially the body form, or motion and behavior
controllers
. In a similar way to
natural evolution
, a large population of robots is allowed to compete in some way, or their ability to perform a task is measured using a
fitness function
. Those that perform worst are removed from the population and replaced by a new set, which have new behaviors based on those of the winners. Over time the population improves, and eventually a satisfactory robot may appear. This happens without any direct programming of the robots by the researchers. Researchers use this method both to create better robots,
and to explore the nature of evolution.
Because the process often requires many generations of robots to be simulated,
this technique may be run entirely or mostly in
robot simulator
software package, then tested on real robots once the evolved algorithms are good enough.
According to the
International Federation of Robotics
(IFR) study
World Robotics 2023
, there were about 4,281,585 operational industrial robots by the end of 2023
Bionics and biomimetics
biomimetics
apply the physiology and methods of locomotion of animals to the design of robots. For example, the design of
BionicKangaroo
was based on the way kangaroos jump.
Swarm robotics
Swarm robotics
is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots. ″In a robot swarm, the collective behavior of the robots results from local interactions between the robots and between the robots and the environment in which they act.″*
Quantum computing
There has been some research into whether robotics algorithms can be run more quickly on
quantum computers
than they can be run on
digital computers
. This area has been referred to as quantum robotics.
Other research areas
(collaborative robots).
Autonomous drones
High temperature crucibles allow robotic systems to automate sample analysis.
The main venues for robotics research are the international conferences ICRA and IROS.
Human factors
Education and training
Main article:
Educational robotics
Robotics engineers design robots, maintain them, develop new applications for them, and conduct research to expand the potential of robotics.
Robots have become a popular educational tool in some middle and high schools, particularly in parts of the USA,
as well as in numerous youth summer camps, raising interest in programming, artificial intelligence, and robotics among students.
Main article:
Technological unemployment
Robotics is an essential component in many modern manufacturing environments. As factories increase their use of robots, the number of robotics–related jobs grow and have been observed to be steadily rising.
The employment of robots in industries has increased productivity and efficiency savings and is typically seen as a long-term investment for benefactors. A study found that 47 percent of US jobs are at risk to automation "over some unspecified number of years".
These claims have been criticized on the ground that social policy, not AI, causes unemployment.
In a 2016 article in The Guardian, Stephen Hawking stated "The automation of factories has already decimated jobs in traditional manufacturing, and the rise of artificial intelligence is likely to extend this job destruction deep into the middle classes, with only the most caring, creative or supervisory roles remaining".
The rise of robotics is thus often used as an argument for
universal basic income
According to a GlobalData September 2021 report, the robotics industry was worth $45bn in 2020, and by 2030, it will have grown at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 29% to $568bn, driving jobs in robotics and related industries.
Occupational safety and health implications
Main article:
Workplace robotics safety
A discussion paper drawn up by
highlights how the spread of robotics presents both opportunities and challenges for occupational safety and health (OSH).
The greatest OSH benefits stemming from the wider use of robotics should be substitution for people working in unhealthy or dangerous environments. In space, defense, security, or the nuclear industry, but also in logistics, maintenance, and inspection, autonomous robots are particularly useful in replacing human workers performing dirty, dull or unsafe tasks, thus avoiding workers' exposures to hazardous agents and conditions and reducing physical, ergonomic and psychosocial risks. For example, robots are already used to perform repetitive and monotonous tasks, to handle radioactive material or to work in explosive atmospheres. In the future, many other highly repetitive, risky or unpleasant tasks will be performed by robots in a variety of sectors like agriculture, construction, transport, healthcare, firefighting or cleaning services.
Moreover, there are certain skills to which humans will be better suited than machines for some time to come and the question is how to achieve the best combination of human and robot skills. The advantages of robotics include heavy-duty jobs with precision and repeatability, whereas the advantages of humans include creativity, decision-making, flexibility, and adaptability. This need to combine optimal skills has resulted in
collaborative robots
and humans sharing a common workspace more closely and led to the development of new approaches and standards to guarantee the safety of the "man-robot merger". Some European countries are including robotics in their national programs and trying to promote a safe and flexible cooperation between robots and operators to achieve better productivity. For example, the German Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (
) organizes annual workshops on the topic "human-robot collaboration".
In the future, cooperation between robots and humans will be diversified, with robots increasing their autonomy and human-robot collaboration reaching completely new forms. Current approaches and technical standards
aiming to protect employees from the risk of working with collaborative robots will have to be revised.
User experience
Great user experience predicts the needs, experiences, behaviors, language and cognitive abilities, and other factors of each user group. It then uses these insights to produce a product or solution that is ultimately useful and usable. For robots, user experience begins with an understanding of the robot's intended task and environment, while considering any possible social impact the robot may have on human operations and interactions with it.
It defines that communication as the transmission of information through signals, which are elements perceived through touch, sound, smell and sight.
The author states that the signal connects the sender to the receiver and consists of three parts: the signal itself, what it refers to, and the interpreter. Body postures and gestures, facial expressions, hand and head movements are all part of nonverbal behavior and communication. Robots are no exception when it comes to human-robot interaction. Therefore, humans use their verbal and nonverbal behaviors to communicate their defining characteristics. Similarly, social robots need this coordination to perform human-like behaviors.
Robotics is an interdisciplinary field, combining primarily
mechanical engineering
computer science
but also drawing on
electronic engineering
and other subjects. The usual way to build a career in robotics is to complete an undergraduate degree in one of these established subjects, followed by a graduate (masters') degree in Robotics. Graduate degrees are typically joined by students coming from all of the contributing disciplines, and include familiarization of relevant undergraduate level subject matter from each of them, followed by specialist study in pure robotics topics which build upon them. As an interdisciplinary subject, robotics graduate programmes tend to be especially reliant on students working and learning together and sharing their knowledge and skills from their home discipline first degrees.
Robotics industry careers then follow the same pattern, with most roboticists working as part of interdisciplinary teams of specialists from these home disciplines followed by the robotics graduate degrees which enable them to work together. Workers typically continue to identify as members of their home disciplines who work in robotics, rather than as 'roboticists'. This structure is reinforced by the nature of some engineering professions, which grant chartered engineer status to members of home disciplines rather than to robotics as a whole.
Robotics careers are widely predicted to grow in the 21st century, as robots replace more manual and intellectual human work. Some workers who lose their jobs to robotics may be well-placed to retrain to build and maintain these robots, using their domain-specific knowledge and skills.
History of robots
Significance
c. 420 B.C.
A wooden, steam-propelled bird, which was able to fly
Flying pigeon
Archytas of Tarentum
Third century B.C. and earlier
One of the earliest descriptions of automata appears in the
text, on a much earlier encounter between
King Mu of Zhou
(1023–957 BC) and a mechanical engineer known as Yan Shi, an 'artificer'. The latter allegedly presented the king with a life-size, human-shaped figure of his mechanical handiwork.
Yan Shi (Chinese:
First century A.D. and earlier
Descriptions of more than 100 machines and automata, including a fire engine, a wind organ, a coin-operated machine, and a steam-powered engine, in
Heron of Alexandria
Philo of Byzantium
, Heron of Alexandria, and others
Created early humanoid automata, programmable automaton band
Robot band, hand-washing automaton,
automated moving peacocks
Designs for a humanoid robot
Mechanical Knight
Leonardo da Vinci
Clockwork Prayer that had machinal feet built under its robes that imitated walking. The robot's eyes, lips, and head all move in lifelike gestures.
Clockwork Prayer
citation needed
Gianello della Torre
Mechanical duck that was able to eat, flap its wings, and excrete
Digesting Duck
Jacques de Vaucanson
Nikola Tesla demonstrates the first radio-controlled vessel.
Teleautomaton
Nikola Tesla
Leonardo Torres Quevedo presented the
Paris Academy of Science
, a radio-based control system with different operational states, for testing airships without risking human lives.
He conduct the initial test controlling a tricycle almost 100 feet away, being the first example of a radio-controlled unmanned ground vehicle.
Leonardo Torres Quevedo
Leonardo Torres Quevedo builds the first truly autonomous machine capable of playing chess. As opposed to the human-operated
El Ajedrecista
had an integrated automaton built to play chess without human guidance. It only played an
chess pieces
, automatically moving a white
the black king moved by a human opponent.
El Ajedrecista
Leonardo Torres Quevedo
In his paper
Essays on Automatics
published in 1914, Leonardo Torres Quevedo proposed a machine that makes "judgments" using sensors that capture information from the outside, parts that manipulate the outside world like arms, power sources such as batteries and air pressure, and most importantly, captured information and past information. It was defined as an organism that can control reactions in response to external information and adapt to changes in the environment to change its behavior.
Essays on Automatics
Leonardo Torres Quevedo
First fictional automatons called "robots" appear in the play
Rossum's Universal Robots
Karel Čapek
Humanoid robot exhibited at the 1939 and 1940
World's Fairs
Westinghouse Electric Corporation
First general-purpose digital computer
Multiple people
Simple robots exhibiting biological behaviors
Elsie and Elmer
William Grey Walter
Formulation of principles of
cybernetics
cybernetics
Norbert Wiener
First commercial robot, from the Unimation company founded by
George Devol
Joseph Engelberger
, based on Devol's patents
George Devol
First installed industrial robot. The first digitally operated and programmable robot,
, was installed in 1961 to lift hot pieces of metal from a
die casting machine
and stack them.
George Devol
1967 to 1972
First full-scale humanoid intelligent robot,
. Its limb control system allowed it to walk with the lower limbs, and to grip and transport objects with its hands, using tactile sensors. Its vision system allowed it to measure distances and directions to objects using external receptors, artificial eyes, and ears. And its conversation system allowed it to communicate with a person in Japanese, with an artificial mouth.
Waseda University
industrial robot
with six electromechanically driven axes
KUKA Robot Group
The world's first
microcomputer
controlled electric industrial robot, IRB 6 from ASEA, was delivered to a small mechanical engineering company in southern Sweden. The design of this robot had been patented in 1972.
ABB Robot Group
Programmable universal manipulation arm, a Unimation product
Victor Scheinman
The first object-level robot programming language, RAPT, allowing robots to handle variations in object position, shape, and sensor noise.
Freddy I and II
Patricia Ambler
Robin Popplestone
First multitasking, the parallel programming language used for robot control. It was the Event Driven Language (EDL) on the IBM/Series/1 process computer, with the implementation of both
inter-process communication
(WAIT/POST) and mutual exclusion (ENQ/DEQ) mechanisms for robot control.
Stevo Bozinovski and Mihail Sestakov
Artificial intelligence
Autonomous robot
Cloud robotics
Cognitive robotics
Evolutionary robotics
Fog robotics
Glossary of robotics
Index of robotics articles
Mechatronics
Multi-agent system
Outline of robotics
Quantum robotics
Robot rights
Robotic art
Robotic governance
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Soft robotics
Telerobotics
One database, developed by the
United States Department of Energy
, contains information on almost 500 existing robotic technologies.
"German National Library"
International classification system of the German National Library (GND)
from the original on 2020-08-19.
"Origami-Inspired Robots Can Sense, Analyze and Act in Challenging Environments"
. Retrieved
Raj, Aditi (26 August 2024).
"AI & Robotics: The Role of AI in Robots"
. Retrieved
Hunt, V. Daniel (1985).
"Smart Robots"
Smart Robots: A Handbook of Intelligent Robotic Systems
. Chapman and Hall. p. 141.
978-1-4613-2533-8
from the original on 2023-03-15
. Retrieved
"Robot density rises globally"
Robotic Industries Association
. 8 February 2018.
from the original on 2020-11-23
. Retrieved
Pinto, Jim (1 October 2003).
"Fully automated factories approach reality"
Automation World
. Archived from
the original
on 2011-10-01
. Retrieved
Eyre, Michael (12 September 2014).
'Boris' the robot can load up dishwasher"
from the original on 2020-12-21
. Retrieved
Corner, Stuart (23 November 2017).
"AI-driven robot makes 'perfect' flatbread"
iothub.com.au
from the original on 2020-11-24
. Retrieved
Pollock, Emily (7 June 2018).
"Construction Robotics Industry Set to Double by 2023"
engineering.com
from the original on 2020-08-07
. Retrieved
"Technology Advanced Search"
D&D Knowledge Management Information Tool
from the original on 2020-08-06.
Arámbula Cosío, F.; Hibberd, R. D.; Davies, B. L. (July 1997). "Electromagnetic compatibility aspects of active robotic systems for surgery: the robotic prostatectomy experience".
Medical and Biological Engineering and Computing
10.1007/BF02534105
Grift, Tony E. (2004).
"Agricultural Robotics"
University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign
. Archived from
the original
on 2007-05-04
. Retrieved
Thomas, Jim (1 November 2017).
"How corporate giants are automating the farm"
New Internationalist
from the original on 2021-01-10
. Retrieved
Kolodny, Lora (4 July 2017).
"Robots are coming to a burger joint near you"
from the original on 2020-12-05
. Retrieved
Kirsner, Scott (27 January 2023).
"Robots in the kitchen? Local engineers are making it a reality"
The Boston Globe
Dowling, Kevin.
"Power Sources for Small Robots"
. Carnegie Mellon University.
from the original on 2020-11-25
. Retrieved
Roozing, Wesley; Li, Zhibin; Tsagarakis, Nikos; Caldwell, Darwin (2016). "Design Optimisation and Control of Compliant Actuation Arrangements in Articulated Robots for Improved Energy Efficiency".
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
2016IRAL....1.1110R
10.1109/LRA.2016.2521926
Pratt, G. A.; Williamson, M. M. (1995). "Series elastic actuators".
Proceedings 1995 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. Human-Robot Interaction and Cooperative Robots
. Vol. 1. pp.
10.1109/IROS.1995.525827
1721.1/36966
0-8186-7108-4
Furnémont, Raphaël; Mathijssen, Glenn; Verstraten, Tom; Lefeber, Dirk; Vanderborght, Bram (27 January 2016).
"Bi-directional series-parallel elastic actuator and overlap of the actuation layers"
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(1) 016005.
2016BiBi...11a6005F
10.1088/1748-3190/11/1/016005
from the original on 2022-10-01
. Retrieved
Pratt, Jerry E.; Krupp, Benjamin T. (2004). "Series Elastic Actuators for legged robots". In Gerhart, Grant R; Shoemaker, Chuck M; Gage, Douglas W (eds.).
Unmanned Ground Vehicle Technology VI
. Vol. 5422. pp.
10.1117/12.548000
Li, Zhibin; Tsagarakis, Nikos; Caldwell, Darwin (2013). "Walking Pattern Generation for a Humanoid Robot with Compliant Joints".
Autonomous Robots
10.1007/s10514-013-9330-7
Colgate, J. Edward (1988).
The control of dynamically interacting systems
1721.1/14380
Calanca, Andrea; Muradore, Riccardo; Fiorini, Paolo (November 2017). "Impedance control of series elastic actuators: Passivity and acceleration-based control".
Mechatronics
10.1016/j.mechatronics.2017.08.010
Tosun, Fatih Emre; Patoglu, Volkan (June 2020). "Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for the Passivity of Impedance Rendering With Velocity-Sourced Series Elastic Actuation".
IEEE Transactions on Robotics
2020ITRob..36..757T
10.1109/TRO.2019.2962332
www.imagesco.com, Images SI Inc -.
"Air Muscle actuators, going further, page 6"
from the original on 2020-11-14
. Retrieved
"Air Muscles"
. Shadow Robot. Archived from
the original
on 2007-09-27.
Tondu, Bertrand (2012). "Modelling of the McKibben artificial muscle: A review".
Journal of Intelligent Material Systems and Structures
10.1177/1045389X11435435
"TALKING ELECTRONICS Nitinol Page-1"
. Talkingelectronics.com.
from the original on 2020-01-18
. Retrieved
"lf205, Hardware: Building a Linux-controlled walking robot"
. Ibiblio.org. 1 November 2001.
from the original on 2016-03-03
. Retrieved
"WW-EAP and Artificial Muscles"
. Eap.jpl.nasa.gov.
from the original on 2017-01-20
. Retrieved
"Empa – a117-2-eap"
from the original on 2015-09-24
. Retrieved
"Electroactive Polymers (EAP) as Artificial Muscles (EPAM) for Robot Applications"
. Hizook. Archived from
the original
on 2020-08-06
. Retrieved
"Piezo LEGS – -09-26"
. Archived from
the original
on 2008-01-30
. Retrieved
"Squiggle Motors: Overview"
from the original on 2007-10-07
. Retrieved
Nishibori; et al. (2003).
"Robot Hand with Fingers Using Vibration-Type Ultrasonic Motors (Driving Characteristics)"
Journal of Robotics and Mechatronics
10.20965/jrm.2003.p0588
Otake, Mihoko; Kagami, Yoshiharu; Ishikawa, Kohei; Inaba, Masayuki; Inoue, Hirochika (6 April 2001). Wilson, Alan R.; Asanuma, Hiroshi (eds.). "Shape design of gel robots made of electroactive polymer gel".
Smart Materials
2001SPIE.4234..194O
10.1117/12.424407
Madden, John D. (16 November 2007). "Mobile Robots: Motor Challenges and Materials Solutions".
2007Sci...318.1094M
10.1.1.395.4635
10.1126/science.1146351
"Syntouch LLC: BioTac(R) Biomimetic Tactile Sensor Array"
. Archived from
the original
on 2009-10-03
. Retrieved
Wettels, Nicholas; Santos, Veronica J.; Johansson, Roland S.; Loeb, Gerald E. (January 2008). "Biomimetic Tactile Sensor Array".
Advanced Robotics
10.1163/156855308X314533
"What is The SmartHand?"
. SmartHand Project.
from the original on 2015-03-03
. Retrieved
Arreguin, Juan (2008).
Automation and Robotics
. Vienna, Austria: I-Tech and Publishing.
"Annotated Mythbusters: Episode 78: Ninja Myths – Walking on Water, Catching a Sword, Catching an Arrow"
from the original on 2020-11-12
. Retrieved
(Discovery Channel's Mythbusters making mechanical gripper from the chain and metal wire)
"Robonaut hand"
from the original on 2020-02-22
. Retrieved
"Delft hand"
. Archived from
the original
on 2012-02-03
. Retrieved
"TU Delft ontwikkelt goedkope, voorzichtige robothand"
from the original on 2017-03-13
. Retrieved
"astrictive definition – English definition dictionary – Reverso"
from the original on 2020-04-30
. Retrieved
Tijsma, H. A.; Liefhebber, F.; Herder, J. L. (2005). "Evaluation of New User Interface Features for the MANUS Robot Arm".
9th International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics, 2005. ICORR 2005
10.1109/ICORR.2005.1501097
0-7803-9003-2
Allcock, Andrew (2006).
"Anthropomorphic hand is almost human"
. Machinery. Archived from
the original
on 2007-09-28
. Retrieved
from the original on 2013-05-10
. Retrieved
Corke, Peter (2017).
Robotics, Vision and Control
. Springer Tracts in Advanced Robotics. Vol. 118.
10.1007/978-3-319-54413-7
978-3-319-54412-0
from the original on 2022-10-20
. Retrieved
Lee, C S. G.; Fu, K. S.; Gonzalez, Ralph (1987).
Robotics: Control Sensing. Vis
. McGraw-Hill.
978-0-07-026510-3
from the original on 2023-03-15
. Retrieved
Short, Michael; Burn, Kevin (1 April 2011).
"A generic controller architecture for intelligent robotic systems"
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing
10.1016/j.rcim.2010.07.013
Ray, Partha Pratim (2016).
"Internet of Robotic Things: Concept, Technologies, and Challenges"
IEEE Access
2016IEEEA...4.9489R
10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2647747
Burn, K.; Short, M.; Bicker, R. (July 2003).
"Adaptive and Nonlinear Fuzzy Force Control Techniques Applied to Robots Operating in Uncertain Environments"
Journal of Robotic Systems
10.1002/rob.10093
from the original on 2022-11-26
. Retrieved
Burn, Kevin; Home, Geoffrey (1 May 2008).
"Environment classification using Kohonen self-organizing maps"
Expert Systems
10.1111/j.1468-0394.2008.00441.x
Mason, Matthew T. (2001).
Mechanics of Robotic Manipulation
10.7551/mitpress/4527.001.0001
978-0-262-25662-9
"What is a robotic end-effector?"
. ATI Industrial Automation. 2007.
from the original on 2020-12-17
. Retrieved
Crane, Carl D.; Joseph Duffy (1998).
Kinematic Analysis of Robot Manipulators
. Cambridge University Press.
978-0-521-57063-3
from the original on 2020-04-02
. Retrieved
G. J. Monkman, S. Hesse, R. Steinmann & H. Schunk (2007).
Robot Grippers
. Berlin, Germany: Wiley.
. Mtoussaint.de.
from the original on 2020-07-08
. Retrieved
"nBot, a two wheel balancing robot"
. Geology.heroy.smu.edu.
from the original on 2021-01-26
. Retrieved
"ROBONAUT Activity Report"
. 2004. Archived from
the original
on 2007-08-20
. Retrieved
Guizzo, Erico (29 April 2010).
"A Robot That Balances on a Ball"
IEEE Spectrum
from the original on 2023-02-10
. Retrieved
"Carnegie Mellon Researchers Develop New Type of Mobile Robot That Balances and Moves on a Ball Instead of Legs or Wheels"
(Press release). Carnegie Mellon. 9 August 2006. Archived from
the original
on 2007-06-09
. Retrieved
"Spherical Robot Can Climb Over Obstacles"
. BotJunkie.
from the original on 2012-03-28
. Retrieved
. Rotundus.se. Archived from
the original
on 2011-08-26
. Retrieved
"OrbSwarm Gets A Brain"
. BotJunkie. 11 July 2007.
from the original on 2012-05-16
. Retrieved
"Rolling Orbital Bluetooth Operated Thing"
. BotJunkie.
from the original on 2012-03-28
. Retrieved
. Orbswarm.com.
from the original on 2021-01-26
. Retrieved
"The Ball Bot: Johnnytronic@Sun"
. Blogs.sun.com
. Retrieved
|archive-url=
is malformed: timestamp (
"Senior Design Projects | College of Engineering & Applied Science| University of Colorado at Boulder"
. Engineering.colorado.edu. 30 April 2008. Archived from
the original
on 2011-07-23
. Retrieved
"JPL Robotics: System: Commercial Rovers"
. Archived from
the original
on 2006-06-15.
"AMBER Lab"
from the original on 2020-11-25
. Retrieved
"Micromagic Systems Robotics Lab"
. Archived from
the original
on 2017-06-01
. Retrieved
"AMRU-5 hexapod robot"
from the original on 2016-08-17
. Retrieved
"Achieving Stable Walking"
. Honda Worldwide.
from the original on 2011-11-08
. Retrieved
"Funny Walk"
. Pooter Geek. 28 December 2004.
from the original on 2011-09-28
. Retrieved
"ASIMO's Pimp Shuffle"
Popular Science
. 9 January 2007.
from the original on 2011-07-24
. Retrieved
"Robot Shows Prime Minister How to Loosen Up > > A drunk robot?"
The Temple of VTEC – Honda and Acura Enthusiasts Online Forums
. 25 August 2003.
from the original on 2020-04-30.
"3D One-Leg Hopper (1983–1984)"
. MIT Leg Laboratory.
from the original on 2018-07-25
. Retrieved
"3D Biped (1989–1995)"
. MIT Leg Laboratory.
from the original on 2011-09-26
. Retrieved
"Quadruped (1984–1987)"
. MIT Leg Laboratory.
from the original on 2011-08-23
. Retrieved
"MIT Leg Lab Robots – Main"
from the original on 2020-08-07
. Retrieved
"About the Robots"
. Archived from
the original
on 2007-09-09
. Retrieved
"Anything, Anytime, Anywhere"
. Archived from
the original
on 2007-10-27
. Retrieved
"Dexter Jumps video"
. YouTube. 1 March 2007. Archived from
the original
on 2021-10-30
. Retrieved
Collins, Steve; Ruina, Andy; Tedrake, Russ; Wisse, Martijn (18 February 2005). "Efficient Bipedal Robots Based on Passive-Dynamic Walkers".
2005Sci...307.1082C
10.1126/science.1107799
Collins, S. H.; Ruina, A. (2005). "A Bipedal Walking Robot with Efficient and Human-Like Gait".
Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
10.1109/ROBOT.2005.1570404
0-7803-8914-X
"Testing the Limits"
. Boeing. p. 29.
from the original on 2018-12-15
. Retrieved
Zhang, Jun; Zhao, Ning; Qu, Feiyang (15 November 2022). "Bio-inspired flapping wing robots with foldable or deformable wings: a review".
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(1): 011002.
10.1088/1748-3190/ac9ef5
Shin, Won Dong; Park, Jaejun; Park, Hae-Won (1 September 2019).
"Development and experiments of a bio-inspired robot with multi-mode in aerial and terrestrial locomotion"
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(5): 056009.
2019BiBi...14e6009S
10.1088/1748-3190/ab2ab7
Ramezani, Alireza; Shi, Xichen; Chung, Soon-Jo; Hutchinson, Seth (May 2016). "Bat Bot (B2), a biologically inspired flying machine".
2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA)
. Stockholm, Sweden: IEEE. pp.
10.1109/ICRA.2016.7487491
978-1-4673-8026-3
Daler, Ludovic; Mintchev, Stefano; Stefanini, Cesare; Floreano, Dario (19 January 2015).
"A bioinspired multi-modal flying and walking robot"
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(1) 016005.
2015BiBi...10a6005D
10.1088/1748-3190/10/1/016005
Kilian, Lukas; Shahid, Farzeen; Zhao, Jing-Shan; Nayeri, Christian Navid (1 July 2022). "Bioinspired morphing wings: mechanical design and wind tunnel experiments".
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(4): 046019.
2022BiBi...17d6019K
10.1088/1748-3190/ac72e1
Savastano, E.; Perez-Sanchez, V.; Arrue, B.C.; Ollero, A. (July 2022). "High-Performance Morphing Wing for Large-Scale Bio-Inspired Unmanned Aerial Vehicles".
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
2022IRAL....7.8076S
10.1109/LRA.2022.3185389
Grant, Daniel T.; Abdulrahim, Mujahid; Lind, Rick (June 2010).
"Flight Dynamics of a Morphing Aircraft Utilizing Independent Multiple-Joint Wing Sweep"
International Journal of Micro Air Vehicles
10.1260/1756-8293.2.2.91
Phan, Hoang Vu; Park, Hoon Cheol (4 December 2020).
"Mechanisms of collision recovery in flying beetles and flapping-wing robots"
2020Sci...370.1214P
10.1126/science.abd3285
Hu, Zheng; McCauley, Raymond; Schaeffer, Steve; Deng, Xinyan (May 2009). "Aerodynamics of dragonfly flight and robotic design".
2009 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
10.1109/ROBOT.2009.5152760
978-1-4244-2788-8
Balta, Miquel; Deb, Dipan; Taha, Haithem E (26 October 2021). "Flow visualization and force measurement of the clapping effect in bio-inspired flying robots".
Bioinspiration & Biomimetics
(6): 066020.
2021BiBi...16f6020B
10.1088/1748-3190/ac2b00
Miller, Gavin.
"Introduction"
. snakerobots.com.
from the original on 2011-08-17
. Retrieved
. Archived from
the original
on 2011-10-11.
"Swimming snake robot (commentary in Japanese)"
. Archived from
the original
on 2012-02-08
. Retrieved
"Commercialized Quadruped Walking Vehicle "TITAN VII"
. Hirose Fukushima Robotics Lab. Archived from
the original
on 2007-11-06
. Retrieved
Pachal, Peter (23 January 2007).
"Plen, the robot that skates across your desk"
. SCI FI Tech. Archived from
the original
on 2007-10-11.
Stanford University: Stickybot
Sfakiotakis, M.; Lane, D. M.; Davies, J. B. C. (April 1999). "Review of fish swimming modes for aquatic locomotion".
IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering
1999IJOE...24..237S
10.1.1.459.8614
10.1109/48.757275
Mason, Richard.
"What is the market for robot fish?"
. Archived from
the original
on 2009-07-04.
"Robotic fish powered by Gumstix PC and PIC"
. Human Centred Robotics Group at Essex University. Archived from
the original
on 2011-08-14
. Retrieved
Juwarahawong, Witoon.
"Fish Robot"
. Institute of Field Robotics. Archived from
the original
on 2007-11-04
. Retrieved
"Festo – AquaPenguin"
. 17 April 2009 – via
"High-Speed Robotic Fish"
iSplash-Robotics
. Archived from
the original
on 2020-03-11
. Retrieved
"iSplash-II: Realizing Fast Carangiform Swimming to Outperform a Real Fish"
. Robotics Group at Essex University. Archived from
the original
on 2015-09-30
. Retrieved
"iSplash-I: High Performance Swimming Motion of a Carangiform Robotic Fish with Full-Body Coordination"
. Robotics Group at Essex University. Archived from
the original
on 2015-09-30
. Retrieved
Jaulin, Luc; Le Bars, Fabrice (February 2013). "An Interval Approach for Stability Analysis: Application to Sailboat Robotics".
IEEE Transactions on Robotics
2013ITRob..29..282J
10.1.1.711.7180
10.1109/TRO.2012.2217794
"A Ping-Pong-Playing Terminator"
Popular Science
from the original on 2021-01-22
. Retrieved
"Synthiam Exosphere combines AI, human operators to train robots"
The Robot Report
from the original on 2020-10-06
. Retrieved
Kagan, Eugene; Ben-Gal, Irad (2015).
Search and foraging:individual motion and swarm dynamics
. Chapman and Hall/CRC.
978-1-4822-4210-2
from the original on 2023-03-15
. Retrieved
Banks, Jaime (2020).
"Optimus Primed: Media Cultivation of Robot Mental Models and Social Judgments"
Frontiers in Robotics and AI
10.3389/frobt.2020.00062
Wullenkord, Ricarda; Fraune, Marlena R.; Eyssel, Friederike; Sabanovic, Selma (2016). "Getting in Touch: How imagined, actual, and physical contact affect evaluations of robots".
2016 25th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (RO-MAN)
10.1109/ROMAN.2016.7745228
978-1-5090-3929-6
Norberto Pires, J. (December 2005). "Robot-by-voice: experiments on commanding an industrial robot using the human voice".
Industrial Robot
10.1108/01439910510629244
"Survey of the State of the Art in Human Language Technology: 1.2: Speech Recognition"
. Archived from
the original
on 2007-11-11.
Fournier, Randolph Scott; Schmidt, B. June (1995). "Voice input technology: Learning style and attitude toward its use".
Delta Pi Epsilon Journal
"History of Speech & Voice Recognition and Transcription Software"
. Dragon Naturally Speaking.
from the original on 2015-08-13
. Retrieved
Cheng Lin, Kuan; Huang, Tien-Chi; Hung, Jason C.; Yen, Neil Y.; Ju Chen, Szu (7 June 2013). "Facial emotion recognition towards affective computing-based learning".
Library Hi Tech
10.1108/07378831311329068
Walters, M. L.; Syrdal, D. S.; Koay, K. L.; Dautenhahn, K.; Te Boekhorst, R. (2008). "Human approach distances to a mechanical-looking robot with different robot voice styles".
RO-MAN 2008 – the 17th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication
10.1109/ROMAN.2008.4600750
978-1-4244-2212-8
Pauletto, Sandra; Bowles, Tristan (2010). "Designing the emotional content of a robotic speech signal".
Proceedings of the 5th Audio Mostly Conference on a Conference on Interaction with Sound – AM '10
10.1145/1859799.1859804
978-1-4503-0046-9
Bowles, Tristan; Pauletto, Sandra (2010).
Emotions in the Voice: Humanising a Robotic Voice
. Proceedings of the 7th Sound and Music Computing Conference. Barcelona.
from the original on 2023-02-10
. Retrieved
"World of 2-XL: Leachim"
www.2xlrobot.com
from the original on 2020-07-05
. Retrieved
"The Boston Globe from Boston, Massachusetts on June 23, 1974 · 132"
Newspapers.com
. 23 June 1974.
from the original on 2020-01-10
. Retrieved
"A history of cybernetic animals and early robots"
cyberneticzoo.com
from the original on 2020-08-06
. Retrieved
"Frubber facial expressions"
. Archived from
the original
on 2009-02-07.
"Best Inventions of 2008 – TIME"
. 29 October 2008. Archived from
the original
on 2008-11-02 – via www.time.com.
"Kismet: Robot at MIT's AI Lab Interacts With Humans"
. Sam Ogden. Archived from
the original
on 2007-10-12
. Retrieved
Waldherr, Stefan; Romero, Roseli; Thrun, Sebastian (1 September 2000). "A Gesture Based Interface for Human-Robot Interaction".
Autonomous Robots
10.1023/A:1008918401478
Li, Ling Hua; Du, Ji Fang (December 2012). "Visual Based Hand Gesture Recognition Systems".
Applied Mechanics and Materials
2012AMM...263.2422L
10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.263-266.2422
"Armenian Robin the Robot to comfort kids at U.S. clinics starting July"
Public Radio of Armenia
from the original on 2021-05-13
. Retrieved
Park, S.; Sharlin, Ehud; Kitamura, Y.; Lau, E. (29 April 2005). Synthetic Personality in Robots and its Effect on Human-Robot Relationship (Report).
10.11575/PRISM/31041
"Robot Receptionist Dishes Directions and Attitude"
from the original on 2020-12-01
. Retrieved
"New Scientist: A good robot has personality but not looks"
. Archived from
the original
on 2006-09-29.
"Playtime with Pleo, your robotic dinosaur friend"
. 25 September 2008.
from the original on 2019-01-20
. Retrieved
conversation with Professor Moravec, October 1997.
NOVA Online
2017-08-02 at the
Wayback Machine
Agarwal, P. K.
Elements of Physics XI
. Rastogi Publications. p. 2.
978-81-7133-911-2
Sandhana, Lakshmi (5 September 2002).
"A Theory of Evolution, for Robots"
from the original on 2014-03-29
. Retrieved
"Experimental Evolution In Robots Probes The Emergence Of Biological Communication"
Science Daily
. 24 February 2007.
from the original on 2018-11-16
. Retrieved
Žlajpah, Leon (15 December 2008). "Simulation in robotics".
Mathematics and Computers in Simulation
10.1016/j.matcom.2008.02.017
"Evolution trains robot teams TRN 051904"
Technology Research News
from the original on 2016-06-23
. Retrieved
Müller, Christopher (2023).
World Robotics 2023 – Industrial Robots
. Frankfurt, Germany: IFR Statistical Department, VDMA Services GmbH.
Tandon, Prateek (2017).
Quantum Robotics
. Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
978-1-62705-913-8
Dragani, Rachelle (8 November 2018).
"Can a robot make you a 'superworker'?"
Verizon Communications
from the original on 2020-08-06
. Retrieved
American Elements
. Retrieved
"Career: Robotics Engineer"
Princeton Review
from the original on 2015-01-21
. Retrieved
Saad, Ashraf; Kroutil, Ryan (2012).
Hands-on Learning of Programming Concepts Using Robotics for Middle and High School Students
. Proceedings of the 50th Annual Southeast Regional Conference of the Association for Computing Machinery. ACM. pp.
10.1145/2184512.2184605
Toy, Tommy (29 June 2011).
"Outlook for robotics and Automation for 2011 and beyond are excellent says expert"
. PBT Consulting.
from the original on 2012-01-27
. Retrieved
Frey, Carl Benedikt; Osborne, Michael A. (January 2017). "The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation?".
Technological Forecasting and Social Change
10.1.1.395.416
10.1016/j.techfore.2016.08.019
McGaughey, Ewan (16 October 2019).
"Will robots automate your job away? Full employment, basic income, and economic democracy"
LawArXiv Papers
10.31228/osf.io/udbj8
Hawking, Stephen (1 January 2016).
"This is the most dangerous time for our planet"
The Guardian
from the original on 2021-01-31
. Retrieved
"Robotics – Thematic Research"
from the original on 2021-09-28
. Retrieved
"Focal Points Seminar on review articles in the future of work – Safety and health at work – EU-OSHA"
osha.europa.eu
from the original on 2020-01-25
. Retrieved
"Robotics: Redefining crime prevention, public safety and security"
. SourceSecurity.com.
from the original on 2017-10-09
. Retrieved
"Draft Standard for Intelligent Assist Devices — Personnel Safety Requirements"
from the original on 2020-11-25
. Retrieved
"ISO/TS 15066:2016 – Robots and robotic devices – Collaborative robots"
. 8 March 2016.
from the original on 2016-10-10
. Retrieved
Brogårdh, Torgny (January 2007). "Present and future robot control development—An industrial perspective".
Annual Reviews in Control
10.1016/j.arcontrol.2007.01.002
Wang, Tian-Miao; Tao, Yong; Liu, Hui (17 April 2018). "Current Researches and Future Development Trend of Intelligent Robot: A Review".
International Journal of Automation and Computing
10.1007/s11633-018-1115-1
Needham, Joseph
Science and Civilisation in China: Volume 2, History of Scientific Thought
. Cambridge University Press.
978-0-521-05800-1
Fowler, Charles B. (October 1967). "The Museum of Music: A History of Mechanical Instruments".
Music Educators Journal
10.2307/3391092
Rosheim, Mark E. (1994).
Robot Evolution: The Development of Anthrobotics
. Wiley-IEEE. pp.
978-0-471-02622-8
al-Jazari (Islamic artist)
2008-05-07 at the
Wayback Machine
Encyclopædia Britannica
A. P. Yuste.
Electrical Engineering Hall of Fame. Early Developments of Wireless Remote Control: The Telekino of Torres-Quevedo
(pdf) vol. 96, No. 1, January 2008, Proceedings of the IEEE.
H. R. Everett (2015).
Unmanned Systems of World Wars I and II
978-0-262-02922-3
Randy Alfred, "
Nov. 7, 1905: Remote Control Wows Public
, 7 November 2011.
Williams, Andrew (16 March 2017).
History of Digital Games: Developments in Art, Design and Interaction
. CRC Press.
978-1-317-50381-1
Randell, Brian (October 1982). "From Analytical Engine to Electronic Digital Computer: The Contributions of Ludgate, Torres, and Bush".
IEEE Annals of the History of Computing
1982IAHC....4d.327R
10.1109/MAHC.1982.10042
L. Torres Quevedo.
Ensayos sobre Automática – Su definicion. Extension teórica de sus aplicaciones,
Revista de la Academia de Ciencias Exacta, Revista 12, pp. 391–418, 1914.
Torres Quevedo, Leonardo.
Automática: Complemento de la Teoría de las Máquinas, (pdf)
, pp. 575–583, Revista de Obras Públicas, 19 November 1914.
L. Torres Quevedo.
Essais sur l'Automatique – Sa définition. Etendue théorique de ses applications
2023-02-10 at the
Wayback Machine
Revue Génerale des Sciences Pures et Appliquées, vol. 2, pp. 601–611, 1915.
B. Randell.
Essays on Automatics,
The Origins of Digital Computers, pp. 89–107, 1982.
Sabbatini PhD, Renato M. E.
"Sabbatini, RME: An Imitation of Life: The First Robots"
from the original on 2009-07-20
. Retrieved
Waurzyniak, Patrick (2006).
"Masters of Manufacturing: Joseph F. Engelberger"
Society of Manufacturing Engineers
(1). Archived from
the original
on 2011-11-09.
"Humanoid History -WABOT-"
www.humanoid.waseda.ac.jp
from the original on 2017-09-01
. Retrieved
Zeghloul, Saïd; Laribi, Med Amine;
Gazeau, Jean-Pierre
(21 September 2015).
Robotics and Mechatronics: Proceedings of the 4th IFToMM International Symposium on Robotics and Mechatronics
. Springer.
978-3-319-22368-1
from the original on 2023-03-15
. Retrieved
– via Google Books.
"Historical Android Projects"
androidworld.com
from the original on 2005-11-25
. Retrieved
Robots: From Science Fiction to Technological Revolution
2023-03-15 at the
Wayback Machine
Duffy, Vincent G. (19 April 2016).
Handbook of Digital Human Modeling: Research for Applied Ergonomics and Human Factors Engineering
. CRC Press.
978-1-4200-6352-3
from the original on 2023-03-15
. Retrieved
– via Google Books.
"KUKA Industrial Robot FAMULUS"
. Archived from
the original
on 2009-02-20
. Retrieved
"History of Industrial Robots"
. Archived from
the original
on 2012-12-24
. Retrieved
R. J. Popplestone; A. P. Ambler; I. Bellos (1978). "RAPT: A language for describing assemblies".
Industrial Robot
10.1108/eb004501
Bozinovski, S. (1994). "Parallel programming for mobile robot control: Agent-based approach".
14th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems
10.1109/ICDCS.1994.302412
0-8186-5840-1
Further reading
R. Andrew Russell (1990).
Robot Tactile Sensing
. New York: Prentice Hall.
978-0-13-781592-0
McGaughey, Ewan (16 October 2019).
"Will robots automate your job away? Full employment, basic income, and economic democracy"
LawArXiv Papers
10.31228/osf.io/udbj8
Autor, David H. (1 August 2015). "Why Are There Still So Many Jobs? The History and Future of Workplace Automation".
Journal of Economic Perspectives
10.1257/jep.29.3.3
1721.1/109476
Tooze, Adam
(6 June 2019).
"Democracy and Its Discontents"
The New York Review of Books
. Vol. 66, no. 10.
External links
at Wikipedia's
sister projects
Definitions
from Wiktionary
from Commons
from Wikibooks
from Wikiversity
IEEE Robotics and Automation Society
Investigation of
social robots
– Robots that mimic human behaviors and gestures.
Wired's guide
to the '50 best robots ever', a mix of robots in fiction (Hal, R2D2, K9) to real robots (Roomba, Mobot, Aibo).
Main articles
Hall of Fame
Competitions
AI competitions
Anthropomorphic
Claytronics
Animatronic
Audio-Animatronics
Articulated
Educational
Entertainment
Agricultural
Food service
BEAM robotics
Soft robotics
Classifications
Biorobotics
Cloud robotics
Continuum robot
Unmanned vehicle
Mobile robot
Microbotics
Nanorobotics
Necrobotics
Robotic spacecraft
Space probe
Telerobotics
remotely-operated
Robotic fish
Electric unicycle
Robotic fins
Motion planning
Simultaneous localization and mapping
Visual odometry
Vision-guided robot systems
Evolutionary
Open-source
Developmental
Human–robot interaction
Amazon Robotics
Barrett Technology
Boston Dynamics
Doosan Robotics
Energid Technologies
Foster-Miller
Harvest Automation
HD Hyundai Robotics
Honeybee Robotics
Intuitive Surgical
Rainbow Robotics
Starship Technologies
Universal Robotics
Wolf Robotics
Critique of work
Powered exoskeleton
Workplace robotics safety
Robotic tech vest
Technological unemployment
Terrainability
Fictional robots
Engineering
List of engineering branches
Specialties
interdisciplinarity
Architectural
Construction
Environmental
Geotechnical
Municipal/urban
Transportation
Biomechanical
Manufacturing
Naval architecture
Electromechanics
Electronics
Radio-frequency
Signal processing
Telecommunications
Biochemical/bioprocess
Bioresource
Chemical reaction
Electrochemical
Biomaterial
Nanotechnology
Semiconductors
Cybersecurity
Engineering education
Bachelor of Engineering
Bachelor of Science
Master's degree
Graduate certificate
Engineer's degree
Licensed engineer
Related topics
Reverse Engineering
Engineering
Aerospace engineering
Civil engineering
Electrical and electronics engineering
Mechanical engineering
Structural engineering
Agricultural
Bioinformatics
Health technology
Pharmaceutical
Rehabilitation
Building services
Information
Instrumentation
Instrumentation and control
Mathematics
Mechatronics
Sustainability
Wikiproject
Emerging technologies
Manufacturing
3D microfabrication
3D printing
3D publishing
Claytronics
Molecular assembler
Smart manufacturing
Utility fog
Materials science
Amorphous metal
Artificial muscle
Conductive polymer
Femtotechnology
High-temperature superconductivity
High-temperature superfluidity
Linear acetylenic carbon
Metamaterials
Metamaterial cloaking
Multi-function structures
Nanotechnology
Carbon nanotubes
Molecular nanotechnology
Nanomaterials
Picotechnology
Programmable matter
Quantum dots
Synthetic diamond
Nanorobotics
Powered exoskeleton
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Swarm robotics
Uncrewed vehicle
Collingridge dilemma
Differential technological development
Disruptive innovation
Ephemeralization
Cyberethics
Neuroethics
Robot ethics
Exploratory engineering
Proactionary principle
Technological change
Technological unemployment
Technological convergence
Technological evolution
Technological paradigm
Technology forecasting
Accelerating change
Future-oriented technology analysis
Horizon scanning
Moore's law
Technological singularity
Technology scouting
Technology in science fiction
Technology readiness level
Technology roadmap
Transhumanism
Glossaries of
engineering
Aerospace engineering
Agriculture
Archaeology
Architecture
Artificial intelligence
Cell biology
Cellular and molecular biology
Civil engineering
Clinical research
Computer hardware
Computer science
Developmental and reproductive biology
Electrical and electronics engineering
Engineering
Environmental science
Genetics and evolutionary biology
Arabic toponyms
Hebrew toponyms
Western and South Asia
Ichthyology
Machine vision
Mathematics
Mechanical engineering
Meteorology
Nanotechnology
Ornithology
Probability and statistics
Quantum computing
Scientific naming
Structural engineering
Authority control databases
International
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Robotics&oldid=1335503367
Hidden categories:
CS1 errors: archive-url
CS1: long volume value
Webarchive template wayback links
Articles with short description
Short description is different from Wikidata
Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes from August 2024
All Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes
Coatrack articles
Use American English from December 2025
All Wikipedia articles written in American English
Use dmy dates from April 2023
Articles containing Chinese-language text
All articles with unsourced statements
Articles with unsourced statements from November 2022
Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata